[09:00:00]  PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: And Chicago. And sources tell me the plan is still to target criminals. But, of course, if here are other undocumented immigrants who are encountered, they too can be arrested and detained.  Now, another part of this, too, is the border. Executive actions like the national emergency declaration. That might sound familiar because it's something they did the first time around, but this is a way for them to get more Pentagon resources to the U.S. southern border.  Then the third is legal immigration. So, they plan to bring back the travel ban. That is something that President Joe Biden had rolled back. Well, it's going to make a comeback, though sources tell me that the team is still discussing who exactly it's going to include. So, in many ways, some of these actions may seem similar to what the first administration was, but now they plan to lean in even further. You see Kristi Noem there coming in.  And I want to say, Sara, that she is going to be asked about the incoming president's immigration agenda. But another thing that Democrats have top of mind is federal funding. So, FEMA falls under the Department of Homeland Security. And during the first term we saw Trump threaten to withhold federal funding to sanctuary cities. Cities that don't work or at least limit their work with federal immigration enforcement authorities. So that may very well be a question, is how much of this agenda could also mean threatening or applying consequences to these Democratic-led cities. So certainly that could be a part of the questioning here.  But the Department of Homeland Security, as a reminder, is a sprawling department. It includes a lot more than immigration. But what we have seen with Trump in office is that oftentimes it is those immigration enforcement agencies that get the most attention simply because it is such a signature issue to Donald Trump.  Sara.  KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: All right, we're looking at these - sorry, sorry about that. We're looking at these live pictures in the hearing room. The governor, Kristi Noem, right there standing at the table. She's about - about - things are clearly about to get underway. First pictures, then gavel, and then confirmation hearing begins and the line of questioning will begin.  Mark Preston, as we're waiting for that, one of the things I'm thinking about is the outgoing secretary of homeland security, Alejandro Mayorkas, was one of the top targets of Republicans throughout the Biden administration. Did I just hear a gavel? I think I heard a gavel.  Hold on, Mark, let's see what's happening right here.  SEN. RAND PAUL (R), CHAIRMAN, HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE: The hearing to consider the nomination of Kristi Noem to be secretary of the Department of Homeland Security will now come to order. The Department of Homeland Security, with 260,000 employees and nearly 20 distinct components, epitomizes, in many ways, unchecked power. Its vast responsibilities, from border security and disaster response, to counterterrorism and cybersecurity, demand rigorous scrutiny to ensure that they are executed within the bounds of the Constitution and with respect to the freedoms of American - of the American people.  Nearly two years ago, when I became the ranking member of this committee, my team sought to understand the extent of this bureaucratic labyrinth. We asked DHS for a comprehensive list of collaborative entities it participates in, task forces, advisory boards, coalitions, commissions, and the like. The response was astonishingly opaque. They stated there is not a single, comprehensive list to address all the collaborative relationships that the department and its components engage in. In other words, we do so much stuff and we're so big we don't - we can't describe it for you. But if we can't describe what we have, we got a problem.  In plain language, the DHS had really no idea. Think about it, an agency commanding over $110 billion annually can't account for its own activities. This is not just bureaucratic incompetence, it's emblematic of a deeper issue. An agency unsure of its own boundaries and commitments. How can an agency fulfill its mission or earn the American people's trust if it doesn't even know the extent of its own operations?  But the problems don't stop there. Instead of focusing on critical threats, like securing the southwest border, DHS has shifted its gaze inward, targeting law abiding Americans. DHS, under the Biden administration, has often used its vast powers to target Americans exercising their constitutional rights. It's become an agency more focused on policing speech, monitoring social media and labeling political dissent as domestic terrorism than addressing genuine security threats.  While cartels traffic people and fentanyl across an unguarded border, DHS has spent its time and resources creating partisan disinformation boards, spying on Americans through invasive surveillance technologies. The mission drift is dangerous. Every dollar spent monitoring law abiding citizens is a dollar not spent securing the homeland.  [09:05:01] Every moment spent targeting political opponents is a moment not addressing real threats like border security, cyberattacks, or the rising influence of adversarial nation states. The priorities of DHS have been deeply distorted, and the American people are paying the price.  And what about DHS' response to Covid-19? Arguably one of the greatest threats to homeland security. The answer is clear. Nothing. They knew nothing of the origins. They didn't study the issue, and they had no information about gain of function research.  We've seen firsthand how unchecked government overreach leads to waste, fraud, and abuse. We cannot let DHS become yet another agency that operates behind a veil of secrecy. The American people deserve transparency, accountability, and leadership that puts national security and liberty hand in hand, not at odds with each other.  Today we gather to consider the nomination of Governor Kristi Noem to serve as the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. I hope this hearing will set the tone for this committee's work in the new Congress to restore transparency and accountability to an executive branch that has grown unchecked.  Governor Noem, if confirmed, you will lead an agency that has lost its way. Your record as governor of South Dakota and a former member of Congress demonstrates your willingness to make difficult decisions in the face of significant political pressure and to put the interest of American people first. You have the opportunity today to address how your background and vision will translate to leading one of the most critical and scrutinized departments in the federal government.  This is the first of many consequential moments for this committee as we renew our commitment to the constitutional oversight role that Congress must assert. I have no doubt that the nominee we'll consider in the coming weeks and months, that you will be up for the challenge.  Governor Noem, thank you for your willingness to serve, and I yield to the ranking member for his opening remarks. SEN. GARY PETERS (D), RANKING MEMBER, HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE: Thank you, Chairman Paul.  Governor Noem, it's great to see you here today. And I want to first thank you for making yourself available not only to the entire committee, but the discussions that we had in my office, going perhaps a little more in depth on the issues than is possible in a hearing like this. And having that open and frank conversation is something that I appreciate.  I also appreciate your willingness to spend time with committee staff as we conduct our due diligence and review of your qualifications and the background to serve as secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. As our third largest federal agency with more than 240,000 employees and an operating budget of more than $100 billion, the Department of Homeland Security requires strong, stable and principled leadership. Our nation faces serious threats and security challenges, from securing our borders and combating terrorism, to preventing cyberattacks and responding to our nation's increasing number of natural disasters. And DHS is the first line of defense in all of those areas.  I appreciated the conversations we had at today's hearing, where we discussed the importance of ensuring that our nation's borders are safe and secure. And while we must address the significant challenges we face on the southern border, we also need to ensure that there are sufficient resources to secure our northern border. Something I know you're very familiar with as the governor of your state, including building out our northern border mission center.  This is especially important in my home state of Michigan, which has two of the nation's busiest border crossings, and we're going to be adding another span shortly, the Gordie Howe International Bridge, which will open later this year. To facilitate the lawful trade and travel of -- to those ports of entry that are absolutely critical to our economy, I've worked on legislation to hire additional U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers to meet increased staffing demands. We must secure our borders, but we also know it is well time passed to streamline our immigration and our asylum process as well.  In addition to border security, DHS is responsible for addressing many threats that face our nation. Just a few weeks ago, unfortunately, Americans were shocked to see two horrific incidents in New Orleans and Las Vegas. A deadly reminder that terrorism and radicalization remain very real and ongoing threats to our homeland.  In my role on this committee, I've made combating foreign and domestic terrorism, as well as extremism, a top priority. In this complex environment, it is essential that DHS continue to focus on all terrorism threats, track and report data to Congress and to the American people, and coordinate between all components to ensure the department is effectively addressing all types of terrorist threats. We've also seen that persistent cyberattacks are still a very serious threat. In fact, an increasing threat. A recent attack from Chinese based hackers infiltrated the Treasury Department.  [09:10:01] On top of ongoing Salt Typhoon hack that comprised numerous U.S. telecommunications companies. There's no question that DHS must continue to lead the way in protecting our networks from foreign adversaries, cyber criminals, and so-called hacktivists to prevent cyberattacks from becoming increasingly devastating to our security, as well as to our economy.  And finally, the Department of Federal Emergency Management Agency must continue to work hard to address the increasing number of natural disasters affecting our communities as a result of climate change. From violent storms, like hurricanes that brought destruction to states across the south, to the devastating wildfires in California, and countless other severe storms and flooding events all across our country. We need leadership at the department that will ensure our nation effectively responds to communities when disaster strikes them. The safety and security of our nation and the American people depend on the department's ability to effectively address these wide-ranging threats.  So, Governor Noem, thank you again for your willingness to serve in this incredibly important position. And I thank you for being here today. I look forward to having a comprehensive discussion about how you intend to lead this critical department through a series of national security challenges, if indeed you are confirmed. PAUL: This morning, Governor Noem will be introduced by Majority Leader John Thune and Senator Kevin Cramer.  Senator Thune, you are recognized.  SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD): Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman, and Ranking Member Peters, and members of the committee. I'm very pleased to be able to be here today to introduce South Dakota's outstanding governor, who has been nominated by President Trump to serve as the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security.  I've known Kristi Noem for a long time. She has a very compelling personal and family story, which inspired her entrance into the public arena. And I'm sure you'll hear a little bit more about that from her.  But I've observed, as she has gone through the state legislature as a leader there, state house of representatives, the U.S. House of Representatives, where she was our only member from South Dakota representing our states interests there for eight years, and now currently as South Dakota's governor.  And I think she brings to this job a number of things that are going to be really essential. And one is, obviously, a skill set when it comes to managing hard problems. She led our state through the pandemic, managed what were extraordinary circumstances all across this country in a way that made South Dakota, frankly, a magnet for people from other states who were trying to flee or get away from some of the heavy-handed requirements that were imposed in other states around the country. Our state stayed open, stayed free, and - and that was largely due to her leadership.  And I would say, too, as we tackle what is an enormously complicated and hard issue, which is our southern border, it's going to require a skill set, which I believe she possesses, it's going to require a tremendous amount of persistence and determination, which I think she has, an enormous amount of energy, which she has in abundance, and, frankly, what I would say is just absolute toughness. It's going to take some tough and hard leadership to get things back in order.  And I want to refer to something she said in her state of the state address earlier this week to South Dakotans. And that is, "that over the past four years we've seen a complete disregard for the security of our borders and the safety of the American people to say nothing for the rule of law. Chaos at our southern border and the Biden administration has left our country vulnerable to a whole host of security concerns, from terrorist entries, to cross border criminal activity, like drug trafficking."  I think it's well documented, and I think it's high time that it gets fixed, and we have somebody nominated by the president that I believe has the capabilities, the qualities, the experience and again, frankly, the determination and toughness to solve what is a very, very tough issue and one which is desperately in need of solutions.  So, I'm - I'm pleased to be able to be here today to introduce our great governor and - and to thank you for her - your consideration. I look forward to this committee acting on her nomination, and I look forward to voting for her on the floor of the United States Senate to be the next secretary of the Department of Homeland Security.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  PAUL: Senator Cramer.  SEN. KEVIN CRAMER (R-ND): Thank you, Chairman Paul, Ranking Member Peters, colleagues. Once again I find myself in full agreement with the majority leader. It's a good place to be in our business.  So, this is a very special opportunity for me. And the first thing I want to do is thank nearly all of you. I got into almost every one of your offices with Kristi as her very amateurish sitting senator sherpa.  [09:15:00] And the blessing for me was not only to be with my good friend and former colleague, but to learn a lot about this - this committee that I'm not on and to get an inside view.  And, Gary, especially learning how we can work together at the northern border and how similar, although very different, Michigan and North Dakota are. So, thank you for your hospitality. You were all very kind to Kristi and to me.  But Kristi is a former colleague. You know, when you're the only member of the - of a body of 435 from an entire state, it's really important to have friends. So together, Kristi and I were two. Two out of 435. And if we could get Montana, Wyoming and Alaska, there would be five of us that could take on the fight.  But I know this. I remember our very first year - my first year, it was not hers. My first year in the House. The unthinkable happened and the House of Representatives failed to pass a farm bill. And all I can tell you was the least secure homeland person in America was the speaker of the House and the majority leader the next day, when Kristi and I doubled up. And - and eventually we got a farm bill done. I say that because we are living at a time and - and, Senator Peters,  you used the words strong, stable and principled. I can't think of three better words to describe Kristi Noem than those three words.  I would add this. I'm not surprised that President Trump turned to Governor Noem. Securing the homeland is the number one priority. Our number one priority, our number one constitutional priority as a Congress. And it is for sure the number one priority of the voters in the last election. And it is the number one priority for President Donald Trump. So, naturally, he would say, hmm, who is the toughest, smartest, most capable protector that I know? I think I'd like to find a ranch woman, mom, grandmother who knows how to protect her own. And when you grow up on a ranch in the prairies or the west, nobody else is going to look out for your critters, no one else is protecting your family. You do it. And she brings this skill set, As Senator Thune said, as a leader, as a legislator, as a member of Congress, as a governor. A very important - by the way, when I get into the room with other governors, Senator Hassan, I might as well have just left because I was not part of a club that I - where I don't belong. But, anyway, it was very, very rich because there's an - there's an alliance there that's really, really important.  And so, for me, it's just a really special opportunity to be able to - to be here with - with her and to have had this time in your offices introducing her to you.  But I want to wrap up because - last with this, because last night I received a very touching letter, unsolicited by either Kristi or me, from the tribal chairwoman from the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, which straddles North Dakota and South Dakota. They don't really care who wins the South Dakota State/North Dakota State football game. But they do care about - about their reservation. And Chairwoman Alkire sent me this letter. Standing Rock is the home of Sitting Bull, in case you were wondering about the credentials of their ability to protect the homeland.  I'll just read a few words. "On multiple occasions, Governor Noem has invited the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe to her table at the South Dakota State Capitol to enter into meaningful discussions." That's what I witnessed when she came to your offices. And Janet writes, "it is of a great excitement and enthusiasm that our North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum will be at the helm of the Department of Interior, and my hopes remain high that you will feel the same about Governor Kristi Noem at the helm of the Department of Homeland Security. These two governors understand the needs in Indian country and what words like tribal sovereignty, jurisdiction and consultation mean to the indigenous people. It speaks volumes to her leadership and to her character."  It's my honor to - to support her and turn it over to her.  PAUL: Thank you for those great introductions.  The committee has also received several statements in support of Governor Noem's nomination, including a letter from 22 fellow governors, the International Association of Firefighters, and six other organizations. Without objection, these letters of support will be made part of the hearing record.  And I know our senators are going to have to go, but thank you for coming and doing those introductions.  It's the practice of this committee to swear in witnesses.  Governor Noem, please stand and raise your right hand. [09:20:02] Do you swear that the testimony you will give before this committee will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God? GOV. KRISTI NOEM (R-SD), HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY NOMINEE: (INAUDIBLE). PAUL: Governor Noem, you are now recognized for your opening statement.  NOEM: Well, thank you and good morning, Chairman Paul, Ranking Member Peters, and distinguished members of this committee. I'm honored to appear before all of you today as the nominee for the secretary of Homeland Security.  I want to thank President-elect Donald J. Trump for his confidence in my leadership, and the people of South Dakota for their fantastic support throughout my time in public service.  I would also like to express my sincere gratitude to Senator Cramer. He has been an invaluable resource to me throughout this process and given me much wisdom, as well as insight, into the thoughts and the procedures of the Senate and this body. And I'd also like to express my gratitude to Senator Thune, the majority leader of this esteemed body. He's been an advisor to me for many years, as well as a friend. And I'm so grateful for the generous support of these two men and their willingness to be here this morning to speak on my behalf and to introduce me to this committee.  Now, I'm a wife and a mother and a grandmother, a farmer, rancher, businessperson. I have served in our state legislature, in Congress for eight years and also a governor. I've spent my entire life in rural America. I understand what it means to work hard every single day, and to build a better future for your kids and for all of our communities.  I come before you today with a deep sense of responsibility and a humility as the nominee to lead the Department of Homeland Security, and also a commitment to the more than 330 Americans who we will work together to help serve and to keep safe and secure in their homes and in their communities.  Now, before I proceed, I want to introduce to you my husband, Brian, who's here with me today. He is my constant 24/7 reminder of our dedication to public service, and that it's not a solo effort or done alone. He has been a rock by my side, and I appreciate all of his love over so many years. I'm grateful that he's here with me today.  Now, securing our homeland is a serious, sacred trust that must be relentlessly pursued and can never be taken for granted. Being safe within our borders here in America is critical. And yet Americans feel less safe than they have felt in decades. For the first time in 30 years, more than 40 percent of Americans are afraid to walk alone at night within a mile of their homes. President-elect Trump is going to change that.  I've seen firsthand the challenges and the opportunities facing our great nation. In the 20 years since the Department of Homeland Security was formed. The nature of the threats to our homeland has grown, and they've evolved. This department was created in response to the failures of the government that led to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. And that reality is not lost on me, especially in the wake of the recent terrorist attacks over New Years.  Now, I've led South Dakota for the last six years with a focus every day on making our state safer, stronger, and freer. I focused every day on making the best decisions, not just for right now, but for generations to come. I've overseen a state budget of over $7 billion and a state employee workforce of more than 13,000, including more than 7,000 that report directly to the governor. I've addressed important issues, like cyber security, human trafficking, drug interdiction, and also natural disasters. The same challenges that are facing so many of you and the people that you represent back home. I've secured our state and supported the rule of law. And if confirmed, as the eighth secretary, that is the same approach that I will take to leading the Department of Homeland Security. As we face the evolving threats of the 21st century, the mission and the success of DHS is more critical than ever. We must be vigilant and proactive and innovative to protect the homeland. The challenges in front of us are extremely significant, and we must secure our borders against illegal trafficking and immigration. We must safeguard our critical infrastructure to make sure that we're protected against cyberattacks, respond to natural disasters, and also terrorism.  I firmly believe that we can meet those challenges head on with resolve, innovation, we can use collaboration with federal and with state partners. And, senators, I want your input. Border security must remain a top priority. As a nation, we have the right and the responsibility to secure our borders against those who would do us harm. And we must create a fair and a lawful immigration system that is efficient and is effective, and that reflects our values.  [09:25:00] President Trump was elected with a clear mandate. He needs to achieve this mission because two-thirds of Americans support his immigration and border policies, including the majority of Hispanic Americans.  I was the first governor to send National Guard troops to our southern border when Texas asked for help, and when they were being overwhelmed by an unprecedented border crisis. If confirmed as secretary, I'll ensure that our exceptional, extraordinary border patrol agents have all the tools and resources and support that they need to carry out their mission effectively.  The same is true of my commitment to the outstanding men and women of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. They are responsible for apprehending, detaining, and deporting illegal immigrants and getting criminal aliens off of our streets and out of the country will help American communities be safer again. The bravery and the dedication of the border patrol and ICE are unmatched, and I will restore dignity to their work.  The rising threat of cyberattacks also demands our utmost attention and our critical infrastructure from energy grids to financial institutions is under constant attack by foreign adversaries and criminal actors. As secretary, I will prioritize a comprehensive, whole of government approach to cybersecurity. In fact, in the coming days, we have to plan bigger and think faster and smarter. I fully acknowledge that people in Washington, D.C., do not have all of the answers, and therefore I will leverage private-public partnerships, I'll advance cutting-edge, state of the art technologies to protect our nations digital landscape.  And I have a proven track record of doing this in South Dakota to back me up. I've helped make Dakota State University a global leader in cybersecurity education because we recognize the need to address this emerging threat. And I will take a proactive approach if given the opportunity to serve as secretary.  Now, President-elect Trump has been a tremendous friend to law enforcement over the years, and I will do the same in my role as secretary. As governor, I've worked closely with law enforcement to make South Dakota safer. I've overseen hundreds of state troopers in the South Dakota Highway Patrol, and on several occasions I've convened groups of law enforcement from across our state to address policies that will make our people safer.  In fact, while some in this country were attacking law enforcement and defunding them, we took the opposite approach in South Dakota. We recruited law enforcement officers to move to South Dakota, a state that respects their service and their sacrifice. And we revamped our law enforcement training to provide the first ever state-led, tribal- focused law enforcement training academy. I'm very proud of the work that we've done in cooperation with our tribes to help make their communities more safe. And we must remain vigilant against terrorism and against others who wish to do us harm to our country and to our great people. I'll ensure that our intelligence and our law enforcement agencies are working together hand in hand, that they're fully equipped to detect, prevent and respond to threats from radical ideologies and foreign adversaries.  And this requires resources, coordination and collaboration across all levels of government. And once again, I will seek your wisdom and I will seek your input into the months ahead. For the sake of the people that we both represent, we have to get this right.  Now, I recognize that homeland security isn't just about prevention, but it's also about resilience. When disasters strike, as we know they will, the Department of Homeland Security must be ready to respond swiftly, efficiently and effectively to protect the lives and the property of Americans. As governor, I've worked with FEMA in response to a dozen natural disasters in South Dakota. These have included historic floods, tornadoes, blizzards, wildfires, a derecho, and even a global pandemic. As secretary, I will enhance our emergency preparedness and strengthen FEMA's capabilities. And we will ensure that no community is left behind and that life-saving services, like electricity and water, are quickly restored.  As secretary, I will oversee the Secret Service, an agency that is in serious need of reforms. We all saw the threats to President-elect Trump last year, and the consequences of failure. Now that should never happen again. And I've worked closely with my own gubernatorial protective detail, and I'm familiar with what works and what doesn't work. And I'll bring that experience towards strengthening the Secret Service once again.  I'm committed to working with this committee, with Congress, and with the dedicated men and women of the Department of Homeland Security to fulfill our mission. And together, we can ensure that the United States remains a beacon of freedom, safety and security for generations to come.  [09:29:59] So, thank you for the opportunity and the honor to appear before you today. Thank you for the meetings and the time that you took in your office to discuss the department and what we can do in the future to. 