[07:00:00] JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Breaking this morning, President Trump's first brush with a trade war averted, but it puts the world and markets on edge this morning. Stock futures plummeting for a variety of reasons. KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Immigration raids across the country. Multiple federal agencies working in major cities like Chicago and L.A., with agents now being told to make sure they're wearing their raid jackets to generate attention. And the Super Bowl matchup is set. The Philadelphia Eagles and the Kansas City Chiefs will face off once again. I'm Kate Bolduan with John Berman, who has opinions. Sara Sidner is out. This is CNN News Central. BERMAN:  All right. Breaking overnight, the U.S. and Colombia back from the brink of a trade war, but it is leaving the region and world markets shaken this morning. Just a short time ago, the White House claimed Colombia has agreed to, quote, All of President Trump's terms after a tense standoff over deportation flights. Colombia had refused entry to U.S. military planes carrying migrants, but now they will be allowed to land. Colombia for its part says it received a guarantee of dignified treatment for those being returned. This followed a threat from President Trump on tariffs of 25 percent that would rise to 50. This morning the White House asserts that the events make clear to the world that America is respected again. That will play out as it will. But trading markets this morning, they are spooked with the trade threats playing a part there. Let's get right to the White House, CNN's Priscilla Alvarez with us this morning with the latest on this. Priscilla, what are you hearing? PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, John, this was certainly the first major international clash over immigration. As you mentioned, President Trump threatening tariffs after Colombia abruptly said that they wouldn't take back flights with repatriated Colombians. So, how did this all unfold? Over the weekend, the U.S. had planned two military flights to Colombia. Now, they had taken off, and according to documents I reviewed, Colombia had authorized those flights. But then, the Colombian president said in a post on X that he would not take those flights, he would block them, and he talked about making sure that migrants are not treated as criminals. Now, the contact error is that Colombia has taken migrants back on civilian aircraft. He seemed to be implying that he was taking issue with this being two military aircraft. Now, of course, earlier, Guatemala had taken back similar flights. Now, this public clash resulted in the president slapping emergency 25 percent tariffs. And in response to that, the Colombian president also hit back, publicly threatening to impose his own retaliatory measures. Now, a last-minute deal was cut late last night, and in a statement, the White House press secretary saying that the tariffs on Colombian imports would be, quote, held in reserve. And she went on to say the following, quote, President Trump will continue to fiercely protect our nation's sovereignty, and he expects other nations of the world to fully cooperate in accepting the deportation of their citizens illegally present in the United States. Now, of course, John, an economic war would have potentially harmed both sides. But what all of this was telling of is how the president is planning to handle countries who say that they will not receive their own repatriated migrants. This has been an issue for the United States over the years with multiple different countries and something that he indicated last night he will handle with these threats of tariffs. John? BERMAN:  Yes, we will see if there are further complications ahead and how personalities, which are clearly paying a factor, continue to play out in the future. Priscilla Alvarez, thank you very much. Kate? BOLDUAN:  So, immigration raids are being carried out across the U.S. right now, and there's new video of arrests being made in multiple states. Yesterday, ICE officials say that nearly 1,000 people were taken into custody. And the White House border czar, Tom Holman, he was actually on hand in Chicago to watch as operations began there. Illinois's governor saying that they're already going too far. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) GOV. J.B. PRITZKER (D-IL):  Let me start by being clear that when we're talking about violent criminals who've been convicted and who are undocumented, we don't want them in our state, we want them out of the country. [07:05:08] What they're also doing though, and it's quite disturbing, is they're going after people who are law-abiding, who are holding down jobs, who have families here, who may have been here for a decade or two decades, and they're often our neighbors and our friends. (END VIDEO CLIP) BOLDUAN:  And there's also new reporting today that the White House wants to make sure that you see it all. Sources telling CNN that agents have been instructed to wear their raid jackets in order to generate media attention. CNN's Rosa Flores is live in Chicago where a lot of this action was over the weekend. Rosa, what's the latest from there? ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Kate, you probably remember I was based here in Chicago during Trump's first term, and I can tell you firsthand from interviewing people at the time that there was a lot of fear here in Chicago. I interviewed DACA recipients, their parents. There was fear, but nothing to this level. I'm talking to sources and advocacy organizations, attorneys here in the city, and they tell me that there is panic in this community because of the ICE enforcements that are happening. We are learning today some of the stories of the individuals who were picked up yesterday by immigration authorities. The first story that we're learning from is CNN affiliate WLS, this is a northern suburb. A woman says that her father was picked up by ICE after ICE knocked on his door and then arrested him. This is a man who's 44 years old. He's a grandfather and he arrived here from Mexico 30 years ago. Here's what his daughter said. Take a listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) YELITZA MARQUINA, LIVES IN WAUKEGAN, ILLINOIS:  They won't open the door because they thought maybe one of us were in trouble or something or something happened to us. He never did anything that would have been nice. I'm already heartbroken myself and I can't really imagine little kids whose families are breaking apart because of this. (END VIDEO CLIP) FLORES:  And you can feel the emotion in that woman's voice. Now, ICE says that they are targeting individuals with criminal backgrounds. We don't know anything about this woman's father, but we've asked ICE for more information about why this man was arrested yesterday. Now, the city of Chicago has a long history of social justice. I've talked to many individuals here in the city from various organizations who say that there is a citywide effort to try to help migrants and kind of taper some of the fears in the community. There is a hotline where people can call. Another organization has filed a lawsuit to try to stop these immigration enforcements from happening here in the city of Chicago. There's also an organization that I'm talking to is who's dropping off groceries to families, Kate, because they're cooped up in their homes. They're too afraid to go outside. Their children are not going to school and those migrants are not going to work because they're afraid that they might be caught up in these mass deportations. Kate? BOLDUAN:  Rosa Flores, thank you. John? BERMAN:  All right. A flood watch is in effect this morning at areas of California hardest hit by wildfires to bring the rain, I should say, bringing new threats of flowing debris and mudslides. This morning, Pete Hegseth will report to the Pentagon for the first time as defense secretary. We have new reporting on the major changes he is planning to make. And happening now, the Kansas City Chiefs preparing to face the Buffalo Bills in the Super Bowl. The rematch that nobody was asking for. If you listen closely, you can hear Harry Enten weeping. Did I say, no? Oh wait, correction, major correction. The Chiefs are playing the Eagles, which is the problem here, which is why Harry Enten is crying. Goodbye. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [07:10:00] BOLDUAN:  The Eagles locker room on having some fun last night after their 55-23 win over the Washington Commanders. They are officially headed to the Super Bowl, Super Bowl 59, in New Orleans, and they will be taking on the Chiefs. CNN's Coy Wire has much more on this. Coy, second time in three years that they're going to be facing off. What happened to your Bills, buddy? COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR:  This is not tears in my eyes. I had hot wings last night and I think I rubbed my eye, Kate. It's a rough morning. This latest chapter in the rival between the Chiefs and Bills was another heavyweight fight. Patrick Mahomes, Josh Allen, fourth time they've met in the last five playoffs and Mahomes has been Allen's kryptonite, like Tom Brady to Peyton Manning all those years. But some key plays, Kate, in the fourth made all the difference. It's fourth down, Bills up one. Josh Allen's quarterback sneak. Did he make it to that white line? It sure looks like he did, but officials said no. Replays didn't provide a definitive view, so the ruling stands. And five plays later, Patrick Mahomes scrambles in for one of his two rushing touchdowns after the turnover on downs, putting the Chiefs up. Bills' response, 70 yards down the field and Allen hit Curtis Samuel for a touchdown, tied it up at 29. Here we go, Buffalo. Chiefs will kick a field goal to take the lead and Josh Allen has plenty of time left, right? Two minutes to go, but on another fourth down, Dalton Kincaid just cannot hang on. [07:15:04] So, the Chiefs' quest for an unprecedented 3-peat continues after a 32-29 win, their fifth Super Bowl appearance in the last six seasons. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PATRICK MAHOMES, QUARTER BACK, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS:  I'm just so proud of my teammates and how they responded. That was a great football team and I'm just lost for words. I'm excited for New Orleans. TRAVIS KELCE, TIGHT END, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS:  Never satisfied, baby. When you play in front of Arrowhead Stadium like this, every single AFC Championship, you kidding me? Kansas City! (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Yes, Taylor Swift back in the Super Bowl to face the Eagles for a rematch with the Chiefs from two seasons ago. Philly has the best offensive line, best running back in the league, and it shows. Saquon Barkley, 60 yards to the house on the Eagles' first drive. He had three rushing touchdowns, Kate. Quarterback Jalen Hurts, he had three rushing touchdowns. Tush, push, hurts and Barkley are the first duo in playoff history to each have three rushing T.D.s in a game, Philly dominating 55-23. The Super Bowl logo conspiracy rears its ugly head again. The colors of the logo, red and green, that makes three of the last four Super Bowl logos matching the teams playing in it, including the one for these two teams two seasons ago. Some believe the seasons are scripted, predetermined outcomes. Unfortunately, for me, there is no blue and red. I spent six years playing in Buffalo, six of the best years of my life. I just knew this was the season, Kate. We'd finally get over that. Patrick Mahomes and Chiefs hump, but we did not again. BOLDUAN:  I will say there was so much talk of the tush push that like on air in the commentary that my daughters were even like, what is this? And how do we get in on this? They were like, this is the best idea ever. They thought it was the most hysterical thing. There was a lot of tush push commentary in my household last night. I will just say it was so funny. And Saquon Barkley, I know that I'm have no room having any commentary on football. He always looks like he is in fast forward. I do not understand that man. WIRE:  Yes. I described earlier, it's like a 230-pound bowling ball covered in baby oil. You cannot stop that or even slow that down. This might be the Eagles' year to beat the Chiefs. We'll see. BOLDUAN:  We will see. Love you, buddy. Thank you so much. Oh my goodness. Much more to come from Coy Wire, as always. Also ahead for us, we have flood warnings in effect this morning for the very same parts of California. Some of them that were just devastated already by wildfires and now they are facing a new threat, the potential of mudslides. And more than a dozen government watchdogs fired. Questions of whether this new move from the White House is even legal, lawmakers in both parties are demanding answers. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [07:20:00] BERMAN:  All right. Breaking news, Stock Futures are plummeting, particularly tech stocks, a very uneasy morning. Let's get right to Matt Egan to figure out what's going on here. Matt? MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER:  Well, John, this is really the first big market selloff that we're seeing of Trump 2.0, and it's all being fueled by A.I. and concerns about a new rival A.I. company. Let's take a quick look at the market. We're seeing Dow Futures down 400 points, a little less than 1 percent, more significant losses, the S&P 500, 2 percent. But look at this, 4 percent drop for NASDAQ. We have not seen the NASDAQ composite closed by 4 percent or more since late 2022. So, this is a significant dropping. One of the biggest losers this morning is NVIDIA. NVIDIA, the A.I. superstar, down almost 12 percent in pre-market trading. John, that translates to a loss of $400 billion in market value. Now here's the crazy thing. This is all being driven by a Chinese startup that few people had ever heard of before a few days ago. So, we're talking about DeepSeek. This is a Chinese A.I. startup that is really raising some eyebrows in Silicon Valley, on Wall Street, and I would imagine in Washington, because it's rolled out this new model that is surprisingly competitive, with the best stuff on the market. Now, it's not just that DeepSeek has this new technology that can rival OpenAI and Gemini and Microsoft Copilot and all these other U.S. A.I. companies, it's the fact that they built it by spending very little money, something like $5.6 million, to build this new A.I. model. And that is really significant because it challenges the conventional wisdom, which is that you have to spend gobs of money to develop the newest and best A.I. models. Mark Zuckerberg, the Meta CEO, he said the other day that his company plans to spend tens of billions of dollars this year alone on developing A.I. And we have this Chinese startup spending just millions of dollars. I talked to Market Veteran Michael Block. He told me that the emergence of DeepSeek from China has cast doubt on the whole tech A.I. ecosystem and the massive spending going on. And, John, look, we knew this was all along. We knew this was going to be a risk coming into this year, right, tech way up, markets way up. A lot of this is being fueled by just a few companies. And there was always the risk that something was going to come along and challenge that. And we are seeing that play out in real time this morning. BERMAN:  The question is the foundations of these assumptions that people have been making about A.I. right now, down a little bit, less than 4 percent, will wash that throughout the morning. Matt, please keep us posted. EGAN:  You're welcome. BERMAN:  All right. Kate? BOLDUAN:  We're looking at some heavy rains in California, also bringing with it threats of landslides to areas that have already been ravaged by fires. It's the good and the bad that are coming hand in hand here. CNN's Meteorologist Derek Van Dam is keeping an eye on all of this for us. [07:25:00] And, Derek, what are you saying? DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Yes, right. You're talking about how volatile this ground, is the recently burned area. So, any additional rain that falls on top of this scorched landscape is going to slide. It's a mudslide, it's a debris flow and there are other insidious risks that go along with it, which I'll explain in just a moment. Here's the recent radar. There is a sigh, a collective sigh of relief that we do have rain falling from the sky. But, of course, when it falls over the areas that have recently burned, that causes that risk of mudslides and debris flows. The good news is the heaviest rain is coming to an end. So, we've actually had the flood warnings that were in place just about an hour ago, they've expired. There's still a flood watch into northern sections of Western L.A. County. You know, here's a look at the two burned areas, Eaton fire, the Palisades fire. Notice the rain over this region starting to dissipate. To the north, though, where the watch is still in place, the Hughes fire is still getting pummeled by rain and high elevation snowfall. So, that's where the current greatest risk for flooding and debris flows currently is. There's the future. You can see how the precipitation slowly comes to an end. I talked about this insidious risk that is kind of this after effect of this. The rain that is falling over these burned areas, there are a lot of contaminants that it's picking up. So, there's actually an advisory for the L.A. County beaches not to go near the water. So, keep that in mind. Kate? BOLDUAN:  It's like the snowballing effect from one disaster to the next, to the next, to the next. Derek, thank you so much for keeping a close eye on it for us. Coming up still for us, tens of thousands of Palestinians returning to their homes in Northern Gaza this morning as part of the ceasefire deal with Israel, just as Egypt and Jordan are rejecting President Trump's latest suggestion for Gaza, as he said, to clean out the whole thing. And thieves used explosives to blow up a museum door and then steal ancient artifacts, including a 2,500-year-old golden helmet. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [07:30:00] 