KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR & CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: But the real question is going to be with those career prosecutors and how they choose to respond to this, because there had kind of been a thinking that maybe they would just put them away in a different part of the Justice Department, push them into really something that they didn't want and kind of forced them to leave that way. No, this was an abrupt firing that happened yesterday. And so that is a real question, whether it's firing those career prosecutors or withholding this federal funding, which right now is on a temporary pause. From a lot of agencies, if you look through the memo that she was referencing there, it's not just DEI programs and climate change, like what she was referencing, it goes to the agriculture industry, the Pentagon, as David Sanger from the New York Times was, was referencing. It really touches every single agency. So it is a real question of what that looks like over the coming days and whether or not there are legal challenges, which we do know we expect to come from states potentially as soon as today. BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: All right. Kaitlan Collins, please stand by. We want to stay with our team at the White House and go to Jeff Zeleny, who's live for us on the North Lawn. Jeff, these moves from Trump, broadly speaking, speak to a vision of the executive and its power that you could argue is unprecedented in American history. JEFF ZELENY CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Boris, there's no question about it. And as Kaitlan was talking there, just her questions about the inspectors general and everything else, it is just one example after another how in this second Trump administration, the President is flexing his presidential muscle and powers day by day, executive order by executive order. And clearly many of these are likely to be challenged in court. And that is the point. We are starting to get, you know, a view as every day of this new administration unfolds. Today, of course, is a conversation on spending. Yesterday was about the military. But sort of a through line to all of these is his view of presidential power. And it is a very robust one, perhaps one we have never seen before, at least in the modern day history of this government. And the whole question over funding this is going to come to a head with Congress. So even though the legislative branch is controlled by Republicans, albeit very narrowly in the House, Congress takes very seriously it's a role of the power of the purse. Well, we will see how long the pause on these programs lasts. But at the center of all of this is something that we are going to learn a lot more about as a country, and that's the Impoundment Control Act of 1974. Sounds arcane sounds in the weeds. But it is basically this. That's when Congress said that it would declare how the money in the laws that it is signing is spent. Well, this President views that somewhat differently. He's been advised by lawyers and allies that the President should have a larger control of this. So we shall see. This is likely to be litigated. But overall, the big picture here just, I guess, seven or eight days into this administration, he's flexing his presidential powers in ways that we have not seen at least again in the modern day presidency. BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Yes, the Impoundment Control Act. I'm also learning of some cases before the Supreme Court. We're going to have to educate ourselves on some case law as well, I think. Jeff Zeleny, thank you so much. Let's bring in Brian Stelter. And Brian, this was certainly a briefing that was long awaited because I don't think anything can really compare to what we saw in the first White House press briefing of the first Trump term, the portrayal that followed of Sean Spicer, even on Saturday Night Live, for instance. It was just something that kind of has become infamous. How did you think that this press briefing went? BRIAN STELTER, CNN CHIEF MEDIA ANALYST: This theater review is obvious. Taking it as theater first move over Sean Hannity. President Trump has a new number one publicist, right? The TV President has just minted a new TV star. Leavitt is the youngest press secretary ever, but she's incredibly practiced at this. She was incredibly smooth. If you're a Democrat right now, you're asking yourself, where is our Karoline Leavitt, who's going to push back against Trump as effectively as she promotes him? Did you notice also that she dangled some news at the beginning? This is a Trump tactic. She literally dangled a shiny object in front of the press corps, saying the drone panic in the Northeast was actually just researchers and hobbyists who were flying FAA approved drones. Now, I'll just say as a New Jersey resident with my hobbyist drone right here, a lot of people still very skeptical about that explanation. But listen, that was a distraction. There are so many more important points and we need to watch for those distractions in the coming months. Leavitt exaggerated just like her boss, right? She claimed he has an overwhelming mandate but he results election don't show that. She also insulted former President Joe Biden in a very personal way. I think some of her predecessors in the job probably cringed when she did that. But she views the job differently. She is there for an audience of one. And in that way, it was incredibly effective. But maybe the most important question was shouted at the end. Did you catch it? One of the reporters tried to ask, is the Medicare portal down in all 50 states?  [14:05:03] This is an emergency right now affecting millions of Americans who were worried about their finances, about their welfare. And she didn't have answers. She essentially said, we'll get back to you. Trust us, we're going to figure it out. SANCHEZ: And we may have some more news on what's going on with Medicaid. Let's go back to Kaitlan Collins, who I believe is still in the briefing room. Kaitlan, what are you hearing? COLLINS: Yeah, so just for the timeline, this memo went out last night ordering the funding freeze on all of this that we have been focusing on and talking about how it's affecting all of these agencies. One big question and one thing that the White House had made clear was Medicare and Social Security would not be affected. A question that came up twice inside this briefing room was whether or not Medicaid would be affected. The White House, clearly sensing the confusion here, sent out a memo to Capitol Hill, a pretty brief one, expressing, you know, what is included in here, what is not. It's not comprehensive. But I do want to read part of it because there's a question about what exactly happens with benefits to Americans like SNAP, like student loans, all of these things that directly affect people on a daily basis. And it says that no program that defy provides direct benefits to Americans is explicitly excluded from the pause and exempted from this review process. But they say in addition to Social Security and Medicare already explicitly excluded in this guidance, mandatory programs like Medicaid and SNAP will continue without pause. Now, that's something to follow up on because we've seen some complaints about Medicaid portals not working in the last few hours or so. That's something to follow up on. But this is a pledge from the White House in this memo to Capitol Hill saying that Medicaid payments will not be paused as a result of this federal funding freeze. KEILAR: And Kaitlan, I do want to mention Ron Wyden just tweeted that his staff has confirmed reports that Medicaid portals are down in all 50 states following last night's federal funding freeze. At the very least here, there's so much confusion over this. What do you make of this?  COLLINS: Well, and that's why there are so many questions because saying, you know, that individuals who get this money won't be affected. There's a lot of groups that get this money that then disperse it to individuals. And so that's been a big question here when it comes to these programs or things like homeless shelters, disaster response, veterans organizations as well. That money isn't given to an individual vet, for example, but it is given to an organization that helps these people. And so that's why there have been so many questions about this as well as with the portals and how that shakes out. I think that sounds like it came from a lot of confusion overnight from people saying they weren't sure exactly what this guidance meant. It's a very comprehensive document that lists all of the agencies that are affected. And that's why we're seeing so many questions about this, because it's not something that can go on for a few days without affecting people. It clearly has those ramifications felt immediately. But the White House is saying that Medicaid will not be affected. What's going on with the portals is altogether another question. SANCHEZ: Not the first time that a sweeping executive order by Donald Trump has created confusion and caused chaos for a lot of Americans. We do have a legal mind with us to discuss some of the apparent impending legal fights that this White House is going to face. Jennifer Rodgers joins us now. Jennifer, what do you make of this view from the White House that Trump essentially acting on his own against Congress's allocation of funds is perfectly legal and within his purview as the executive? JENNIFER RODGERS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Yeah, well, this is a really dangerous thing, Boris. I mean, it's not just the allocation. Anytime Congress allocates funds to something, that's a law and it has the appropriations laws have the effect in force of other laws. And this isn't the only instance, as Kaitlan was talking about. I'm glad she asked that question at the press conference. He fired inspectors general last Friday night in violation of law, and he has fired career DOJ employees in violation of law. So President Trump is deciding on his own without getting, as far as I can see, any sort of opinion on that. I mean, he says the White House counsel has cleared this, but we haven't seen any actual paper on that, that he is going to violate a law that has not been challenged in court. Now, he can only do that, presumably, if the law is unconstitutional, but he's not testing that in the courts. And the courts are the ones ultimately to decide what's constitutional and what's unconstitutional. So, you know, I think this is a problem, of course, because if he wants to violate these laws without actually testing them through the courts first, where is he going to stop? I mean, where will he stop in violating laws that he decides don't apply to him? It's also a problem, of course, in terms of morale in these agencies. I mean, what's happening to DOJ is really terrible for everyone there, not just the people who were fired. How much is he going to reach in and control what used to be an agency that was independent from the White House?  [14:10:02] All of these unknowns, I think, are really damaging the institution, just even beyond the people who are actually let go. KEILAR: Jennifer, thank you so much. We do appreciate it. We appreciate it to all of our folks who were with us there after that briefing to break it down for us. You are watching CNN News Central. We'll be right back with more. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [14:15:01] SANCHEZ: Just minutes from now, Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem is expected to address her department staff for the first time, where she's expected to lay out some more of the administration's immigration strategy. We just heard from White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt, she used part of her debut from the podium to outline Trump's sweeping changes to the country's immigration policy. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) KAROLINE LEAVITT, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: On day one, President Trump declared a national emergency at our southern border and to end the four-year long invasion of illegal aliens under the previous administration. Additionally, President Trump signed an executive order to end catch and release and finish construction of his effective border wall. By using every lever of his federal power, President Trump has sent a loud and clear message to the entire world. America will no longer tolerate illegal immigration. (END VIDEO CLIP) KEILAR: In the meantime, some new images obtained by CNN show two Colombian planes carrying U.S. deportees arriving in the capital of Bogota earlier today. The video just released by the U.S. Marine Corps showing troops reinforcing the southern border barrier near San Diego. And joining us now to discuss is Sheriff Javier Salazar of Bexar County, Texas. Sheriff, thank you so much for being with us. And we should note you are here in D.C. there is a sheriff's conference going. And later today, Tom Homan, the border czar, the immigration czar is going to be speaking to you. Can you tell us as you have been talking to administration officials or at least one --  SHERIFF JAVIER SALAZAR, BEXAR COUNTY, TEXAS: Sure. KEILAR: -- are you being asked to work with ICE on raids? What is the ask? SALAZAR: Well, I'll tell you what, we have not been asked to participate in any raids back home. I can tell you my folks are just going on about our regular everyday business. With that being said, you know, I'm certainly not pretending to speak for the White House or the Trump administration. I'm not here to pass a message. What I can tell you is, all I can share is what I have on good authority from a high ranking law enforcement official had a one on one meeting with him. And what I'm hoping is to bring down the fear level in my community and communities across the country by sharing what was shared with me. KEILAR: Tell us what that is. SALAZAR: Well, so he clarified somewhat about the schools and the churches, right? The fear was that they were going to be going door to door, church to school, church to school, checking students, checking teachers. That's not necessarily what I'm told is their rules of engagement. I think prior to there had been orders that schools and churches were off limits. And unfortunately, I believe that, you know, drug runners and smugglers, coyotes knew that and so they would step into school property or church property, as it were, and they knew that they could not be apprehended. My understanding is that has been removed. And so unless they have reason to head into a school or a church in fresh pursuit of somebody. Now, granted, if they're in the process of looking for somebody with a warrant, for example, that is undocumented and they have information that this guy drops off his kids at a school at 8 o'clock in the morning, well, certainly they're going to lie in wait at the school, but my understanding is they're not just going to be going willy nilly school to school, church to church, to see which kids or teachers or whoever may be undocumented. SANCHEZ: I understand that you've previously said that Bexar County is on some kind of list for raids. Could you expand on that? Who's putting together this list? What does it mean for your community? SALAZAR: Well, and I don't know who's putting together the list. We've seen a lot of talk about, you know, different major cities being targeted. And, you know, we have heard through unofficial channels that San Antonio is being considered for these raids. Doesn't surprise me one bit. But with that being said, I have that -- I have not seen that from any sort of official sources. And so, you know, I know that social media sometimes really, really helps and sometimes it tends to get in the way with, you know, promoting rumors and things like that that again, do nothing to help us bring down the anxiety and fear level in our communities. KEILAR: You are planning to cooperate, though, so I wonder what you were expecting to be asked. We currently have been watching Oklahoma, for instance, where they are looking at something very different than what you're describing in terms of expectations. They're looking at providing information about certainly parents and questions locally about students and their immigration status to the Trump administration. Tell us what you would be willing to cooperate on and what you wouldn't be. SALAZAR: Well, I'll tell you. We have never not honored an immigration detainer in the jail, for example, because that's one of the things that in Texas, sheriffs are responsible for, the jail. We have never failed to honor an immigration detainer. But with that being said, that sounds awful extreme and certainly that's not something that I intend to do as proactively. In fact, I'm more the opposite. I would prefer that our immigrants in our community, whether documented or undocumented, feel comfortable coming to me, especially if they're a victim of a crime or a witness to a crime. Come to me and report that we're not going to look to deport you. We're not going to mistreat you. We're going to treat you like a victim or a witness. [14:20:01] And in fact, you've got protections under the law as a witness or a victim, and we're going to exercise those in order to bring those that are responsible for doing you harm to justice while protecting your rights. SANCHEZ: Are you concerned that in the process of doing that, you may be targeted by the administration for, in their view, sheltering or aiding undocumented migrants? They have vowed to go after folks who do that. SALAZAR: Oh, you know, if I were afraid of being targeted, I wouldn't have spoken at the DNC, and there's a lot of other things that I would do. So, I mean, I don't think that's an issue necessarily. You know, if they want to come after me for helping a citizen or a person in need in my community, have at it. SANCHEZ: I am also curious about racial profiling, because previously when --  SALAZAR: Sure. SANCHEZ: -- we talked about SB4 going through the Texas Legislature, this bill that would essentially give Texas the right to process undocumented migrants the way the federal government is supposed to do, you would express that it could create problems for your community. I imagine this is going to cause some issues. SALAZAR: Well, and that's why we're clarifying with our troops, with my deputies, where your authorities actually are and what SB4 says. SB4 gives -- may give you authority to do certain things, but it doesn't command that you do anything. And so if you choose not to ask those questions and don't ask them, you know, with that being said, we do want to remind our deputies that racial profiling is still illegal. And in fact, under federal laws, as local authorities, we do have somewhat limited authorities, and so we want to make sure that they don't run afoul of those in an effort to go enforce immigration laws. SANCHEZ: But what about federal officials? Because immigration status isn't something that you wear on your head, right? SALAZAR: Correct. SANCHEZ: So if they're in the process of trying to adjudicate some of these cases, you could see people that are U.S. --  that are here in the U.S. legally, that maybe speak broken English or they don't speak English all that well, they might wind up getting processed. SALAZAR: Absolutely. I mean, that's my greatest fear. I mean, my paternal grandma didn't speak a word of English her entire life, and she was a U.S. citizen. And so my fear is that somebody like that will get wrapped up in things. I don't want my deputies to be those responsible for putting handcuffs on somebody that is a U.S. Citizen or has a legal right to be here when in fact somebody is alleging that they're not. KEILAR: Sheriff, thank you so much for being with us. We do appreciate you joining us in studio especially. SALAZAR: Thanks so much. KEILAR: Thank you. And coming up, some brand new reporting about Trump's pick to lead the FBI. What is driving some of the distrust between Kash Patel and the intelligence community? We'll have that and much more coming up on CNN News Central. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [14:27:23] KEILAR: This just in. Caroline Kennedy releasing a new video warning senators that her cousin Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is a, quote, predator. This comes ahead of RFK Jr.'s confirmation hearings to be President Trump's Department of Health and Human Services Secretary. CNN's Arlette Saenz is with us now. Tell us about what's in this video, Arlette. ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Brianna, Caroline Kennedy issued a very stark warning about the nomination of her cousin Robert F. Kennedy to be the Secretary of Health and Human Services, urging lawmakers up on Capitol Hill not to vote in favor of his confirmation. This is a very rare moment that we're seeing from Kennedy. And another sign of some of the fissures within the Kennedy family over Robert F. Kennedy's nomination. Now, she posted this lengthy video where she read aloud the letter that was sent to senators on Capitol Hill detailing some of her concerns, talking about troubling behavior in the past, also accusing him of being hypocritical on vaccines, and also saying that Kennedy is addicted to attention and power. Here's some of that video that she released today. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) CAROLINE KENNEDY, COUSIN OF RFK JR.: I've known Bobby my whole life. We grew up together. It's no surprise that he keeps birds of prey as pets, because Bobby himself is a predator. He's always been charismatic, able to attract others through the strength of his personality, his willingness to take risks and break the rules. I watched his younger brothers and cousins follow him down the path of drug addiction. His basement, his garage, his dorm room were always the center of the action where drugs were available. And he enjoyed showing off how he put baby chickens and mice in a blender to feed to his hawks. It was often a perverse scene of despair and violence. Today, while he may encourage a younger generation to attend AA meetings, Bobby is addicted to attention and power. Bobby preys on the desperation of parents of sick children, vaccinating his own kids while building a following, hypocritically discouraging other parents from vaccinating theirs. It's incomprehensible to me that someone who is willing to exploit their own painful family tragedies for publicity would be put in charge of America's life and death situations. (END VIDEO CLIP) SAENZ: Now, CNN has reached out to a spokesperson for Kennedy to see if there will be any reaction to this video. The video is likely not just potentially an effort to try to get Republicans to vote no, but also make sure that Democrats stand united in opposition to Kennedy when he eventually comes up for a vote in the Senate. 