[08:30:00]   GINA MCCARTHY, FORMER WHITE HOUSE NATIONAL CLIMATE ADVISER: Because the movements he's made is doing nothing to benefit him off fossil fuels. It is doing nothing but an attempt to slow down the clean energy revolution. That is, frankly, winning everywhere.  You know, if he cares about serving the people, he's got to step up. Look, and when the federal government falls apart, like it's doing right now, we have a whole bunch of folks, and America is all in, and Bloomberg and others working together, governors and mayors, they're going to keep filling this gap. Everybody knows that clean energy is hands down the winner and yet he is denying the ability for us to actually move forward internationally and domestically with the right actions that the American people need to see.  So, I don't blame all of the institutes now who are sitting there dying for fossil fuels to advance, who are now realizing, oops, we better start rethinking that because if he's looking to push more fossil fuel, oil out the door, he's just going to lower the price more, they're going to lose their profits.  So, in many ways this is all about the money, as it always is here. And I think it's really important for folks to remember that a lot of the resources in the Inflation Reduction Act that has gone to support this transition is in the hands of cities and towns now. So, that's where all the juice is going to come from. And even though the federal government wants to step aside, governors and mayors and business leaders are still going to move forward. And that's what you're seeing now, because it doesn't make sense not to.  KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: Real quick. You were EPA administrator under Obama. Do you have an opinion? What do you think of Lee Zeldin, who could be heading up the agency if he gets confirmed?  MCCARTHY: You know, I really don't know him, and I don't know many who do. You know, I've seen some decisions he's made in New York that looked OK. I've seen other decisions that looked horrible. So, we'll have to wait and see. Hopefully he'll realize that he's running one of the greatest agencies in the United States, and he's going to do what he can to protect our health and well-being. I'll keep my fingers crossed, but we better keep a close watch.  BOLDUAN: Gina McCarthy, good to see you. Thanks for coming in. Sara.  SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: All right, ahead, Donald Trump will be headed to the damaged areas where the California fires are continuing to burn and to North Carolina that experienced the hurricane. The question is, will he bring vitriolic language or compassion? We will cover it as soon as he leaves the White House.  And police say a bank robber had an unusual getaway driver, a cab driver. That story is ahead. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [08:37:23] BOLDUAN: What a year this week has been. That can apply often, and it definitely applies this time. President Trump is rounding out the first workweek of his second term with his first trip outside the beltway as he's heading to North Carolina and California.  The week began with a flood of executive actions starting minutes after he was sworn in. The executive actions designed to undo what Biden did and make good on campaign promises.  Let us recap on the week that was. The initial wave of executive actions included pardoning almost all January 6th defendants, throwing TikTok a lifeline, extending the deadline for the ban, declaring an emergency at the southern border, moving to end birthright citizenship, which has already been challenged and blocked by one court, he withdrew from the World Health Organization, he is once again withdrawing from the Paris Climate Accord, and Trump rolled back more than 78 Biden era policies. That was Monday. Deep breath.  On to Tuesday. The executive order train kept on moving with an executive order to end all federal DE&I programs, putting those employees on administrative leave. He also circumvented the usual security clearance review process for his staff. Instead, he himself simply just granted temporary top secret security clearance to incoming White House officials.  Then Wednesday, he turned his focus on the scientific community, halting all biomedical grant approval through NIH. HHS calling it a short pause, but it already resulted in researchers across the country getting notifications that grant approval meetings were canceled. And at the Justice Department, they also brought things to a halt. Every case in DOJ civil rights division put on hold.  And yesterday, Donald Trump took his campaign trail rhetoric to Davos, virtually, bashing world leaders to their faces, essentially, issuing his most explicit threat yet to slap tariffs on European exports and saying, build products in America or else. He called for a negotiated end to the war in Ukraine and continued his singular focus on NATO, a la his first term, demanding member nations more than double their defense spending to 5 percent of GDP.  Also yesterday, he ordered all files associated with the assassinations of JFK, RFK and MLK be released. And he pardoned 23 anti-abortion activists.  That brings us now to today. Are you still with me?  The president traveling to two places hit by natural disasters, Asheville, North Carolina, continuing to rebuild from Hurricane Helene, and southern California, where wildfires are still actively burning, and the entire communities, as we have been covering, have been just wiped out.  [08:40:05] So, add all of that up and what do you get? You get Harry Enten to come in to run the numbers. Seriously.  So, Harry, how is the public seeing all of this that I just described?  HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: I got to tell you, your reading comprehension, your reading abilities are quite off the charts, Kate Bolduan.  BOLDUAN: I have very few talents. I can read what I wrote, yes.  ENTEN: That was - that was tremendous. A tremendous read.  Look, the American people really like what they're seeing, at least compared to where Donald Trump started eight years ago, right? All right, this is Donald Trump's net approval rating. This is Reuters/Ipsos. It's among adults. It was taken the first few days of this administration.  Look here, back in January of 2017, Donald Trump became the first president in history to start his presidency with a net negative approval rating. Look at where we are now in January 2025, considerably better at plus six points. That's up nine points. To borrow a Donald Trump phrase, this is big league. This is a sign that the American people, at least initially, like what they're seeing. And so you see right here, more Americans approve of Donald Trump's job than disapprove. And that is very much, very much unlike what we saw eight years ago.  BOLDUAN: So, compare the rating now to the entire first term.  ENTEN: Yes. So, it's not just that he's doing better than where he was doing eight years ago. It's that he's doing better than he ever did during his entire first administration. So, I, again, looked at -  BOLDUAN: He never was - he never was over plus three? ENTEN: He was never over plus three. The highest rating he ever - his highest ever net approval rating was plus three in March of - BOLDUAN: Your choice of photo is quite amazing. ENTEN: He likes what he's seeing. He's smirking at the American - at the American media.  BOLDUAN: Yes. I also think he just doesn't like you.  ENTEN: Maybe - maybe not, although he should like these numbers and the way I'm presenting them. You look at January 2025, look at that, again, you get plus six. So, Donald Trump isn't just in a better position than he was eight years ago at this point, he's in a better position than he was at any point during his entire first term. Things have very much turned around. This is a very different Donald Trump. He's leading a very different administration, the way he's attacking things. And the American public is very much more in line with him than they were at any point during his entire first term.  BOLDUAN: Well, I - one - one I would say, correction, he's not a very different Donald Trump. This is a very different Donald Trump in - as being viewed by voters in this moment.  ENTEN: And the way he's going about things with Susie Wiles leading things, I think he is, you know, going at things in a much less disorganized fashion. Much more organized.  BOLDUAN: OK. Take me back in history.  ENTEN: Take you back in history. So, it was so interesting to me that Donald Trump's first net approval rating of his second term is higher than his entire first term. And I was interested. Has that ever happened? Has the second term net approval rating in the first month, have you ever had a higher rating than any net approval rating during the entire first term? Donald Trump is the only - BOLDUAN: I have a really hard time believing this.  ENTEN: This is 100 percent true. I went back. I love spreadsheets. Donald Trump's is the first guy ever who's net approval rating in the first month of his second term is higher than any rating that he had his entire first term, Kate Bolduan. This is true. I don't make stuff up. The numbers are the numbers.  BOLDUAN: I believe you in nothing except when you have it in the wall, and then I believe everything you say.  ENTEN: Then - that's exactly right.  BOLDUAN: Which is why I'm now going to the wall. What is this tab?  ENTEN: Yes, what - BOLDUAN: Why is this here?  ENTEN: What is going on here with the Bills? Well, my Buffalo Bills are taking on the Kansas City Chiefs this weekend. And I have a forecast. And that is, Bills by a billion. The Buffalo Bills are finally going to slay the dragon. They're finally going to defeat Patrick Mahomes. They are going to the Super Bowl for the first time since I was one, two, three, four, I think five years old. I don't even remember that particular Super Bowl. The Bills are going to do it. They're going to march into Arrowhead, and Josh Allen is going to deliver. He is going to be the savior for Bills mafia.  JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: That's a pretty big spread, I have to say.  BOLDUAN: I'm just going to say, I'm sorry, America.  BERMAN: Yes. BOLDUAN: I am stuck with him. ENTEN: No, this - you are stuck with me. BERMAN: I think it's like the Chiefs one and a half, but - but you're going with Bills by a million.  ENTEN: Bills by a billion, John. You were off by a big factor there. They're going to win by a billion points. You heard it here first.  BOLDUAN: Does this - does this - this is - this is like an amorphous thing, and it's not amorphous, but it is to me, this over under concept, is that what this is?  ENTEN: This is Harry Enten's math.  BOLDUAN: Oh. ENTEN: I'm a forecaster. You trust me here.  BOLDUAN: You just - yes, you've just lost all credibility with the first four tabs with this one.  Well done. Well done (INAUDIBLE) - ENTEN: No. Well, you know what, if I want to lose credibility, I would lose it on the Buffalo Bills any day for my dear friends, including my dear savior, Josh Allen.  BERMAN: I am sure you're not setting yourself up for disappointment.  ENTEN: Never.  BOLDUAN: Take it, John. Run. BERMAN: All right, Harry Enten, good luck - good luck with that.  ENTEN: Thanks.  BERMAN: This morning, "The Wall Street Journal" editorial board is criticizing President Trump's decision to end security details for former Trump administration officials John Bolton, Mike Pompeo and Brian Hook. All three had extra security protection for years because they were under what was considered very real threats from Iran. "The Journal" writes, quote, "this looks like a new low. Mr. Trump reportedly has ordered an end to security protection for three former advisers who were living under the threat of assassination by Iran. Pray it won't happen, but what if one of them now gets attacked?"  With us now is Democratic strategist Matt Bennett and Madison Gesiotto, a Republican political strategist.  [08:45:02] Matt, what does this look like to you?  MATT BENNETT, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: Well, this is typical Trump. It's retribution against enemies, both real and imagined.  And I think it's very important to emphasize that with Trump two, the only thing that matters is absolute loyalty. It's ironic because, you know, they're - they're making a big deal about getting rid of DEI, because all they want are people that rise on their own merit. And yet the only thing that gets you into the Trump administration, or gets you the president's favor, is being absolutely loyal to Trump. And he has decided that these three guys haven't been loyal to him. And that makes them - and he's taking away their security - protection, which means they're now vulnerable to assassination by the Iranians. He's sending a very clear signal to everybody. Not only could you lose your job, you could lose your life if you cross Trump in ways that that rise to his attention.  BERMAN: Madison. MADISON GESIOTTO, TRUMP 2020 ADVISORY BOARD MEMBERS: Yes, I just don't think that's the truth. I mean there is a lot of intelligence behind this, going into this decision. When you're granted this type of protection, it's not for life, it's not forever. And so, they continue to analyze that information. This is something that Biden did as well, actually taking back some of the protection for one person involved in the same situation under Trump.  And so, President Trump and his team, they reviewed this information and they determined that these threats were not what they once were. And so, they decided to pull this back.  Keep in mind, of course, that this costs millions of dollars per person per year that taxpayers have to pay. And so, if this threat isn't as high as it once was, and they don't seem to think that that protection is warranted, then I think it's absolutely justified to pull it back.  BERMAN: It is notable that the Biden administration thought it was merited until just a few days ago when they were still in office.  I also want to talk, on the subject of foreign policy, look, President Trump has said a lot the last four days. I mean Kate just ran through the huge number of things he's done and that has run hand in hand with these huge number of running news conferences and commentaries. And he did go on quite a bit about his feelings about what happened in Ukraine.  Listen to this.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Zelenskyy was fighting a much bigger entity, much bigger, much more powerful. He shouldn't have done that because we could have made a deal, and it would have been a deal that would have been - it would have been a nothing deal. I could have made that deal so easily. And Zelenskyy decided that I want to fight.  (END VIDEO CLIP) BERMAN: I want to fight, Madison. Zelenskyy decided he wanted to fight because Russia invaded Ukraine. I mean, wasn't there a time, Madison, when Republicans would have looked at this and said, that's - that's appeasement?  GESIOTTO: Well, I think, as a Republican, you know, you look forward and what's in the best interest of not only Ukraine, but in the best interests of Russians, and the best interests of the entire world, and that's less lives lost. And so, if we can make a deal at this point with Trump in office, to make sure that we now tamp down on the number of lives lost moving forward, I think that's in the best interest of everybody.  BERMAN: True. Although, Matt, that was backwards looking. That was saying he was - if I say true, that's maybe what Donald Trump is looking for going forward, but that was backwards looking to the extent saying that Zelenskyy should have fought back.  BENNETT: I mean, how do you make a deal when your country has been invaded, when your civilian population is being attacked, your energy infrastructure is being attacked, that - that your nuclear energy facilities are being attacked by a gigantic army. That is the most ridiculous comment of many ridiculous comments Trump has made over the last several days. There's absolutely no way that Zelenskyy could have cut a deal with an army invading. BERMAN: Madison, what do you make of the fact that President Trump, we learned when we woke up this morning, invited Senator Adam Schiff with him to tour some of the fire damage in California? He has, just the other day, called Adam Schiff scum. He also said that he was the enemy within and should be in jail. What do you make of that outreach?  GESIOTTO: Yes, definitely not expected. But I think anytime we can see bipartisanship, especially in a time of natural disaster, is very important. But, of course, Trump going in this morning to California, and he's been very critical of many of the Democrats in that state, including Newsom.  And, of course, wildfire management isn't the only criticism he's had of him. He's been very hard on him on elections, too. You know, here in Ohio, we have free and fair elections. It's very easy to vote. It's very hard to cheat. And we count our votes very quickly. California, not so much. I mean they were still counting into December. They mail out tens of millions of ballots that aren't even requested. And so, he's hit Newsom very hard on this.  We saw Trump work very well with Newsom in certain instances during that first administration. I think we'll continue to see the same, but it may not look the same as it once did. And so, I think that will be something interesting to watch this morning in California and moving forward in this administration.  BERMAN: Yes. And look, we are standing by to see President Trump leave the White House. I'm sure he will comment, probably speak to microphones there. We might get a sense of what the tenor will be over the course of the day.  Matt, do you care to lay a wager on whether or not President Trump will rise above politics and talk about disaster relief and aid, or do you think by the end of today, in California politics, we'll get back into it?  [08:50:13] BENNETT: I think the odds of him rising above are about the same as the Bills winning by a billion, which is to say, zero. He never rises above. He is - he's incapable of rising above. The only thing that matters to Trump is his own interest and his own personal grievances. So, he will not.  If you think back to the first term where he was supposed to be the consoler in chief, when terrible things happened, natural disasters, or mass shootings, I mean, remember the image of him standing with the baby who had just been orphaned in a mass shooting with his thumb up and smiling. He does not know how to have human empathy. And when he goes to these places, he's very bad at it. So, guarantee that he will take shots at the governor, and he will not provide the kind of comfort that a normal president would in a place like Los Angeles right now.  BERMAN: Well, we will see. He will be leaving the White House shortly.  Matt Bennett, Madison Gesiotto, thanks so much for being with us this morning. Have a great weekend.  BENNETT: Thank you. BERMAN: Sara.  SIDNER: As John just said, the president will be leaving the White House shortly, expecting to visit disaster zones in both North Carolina and California. We will wait to see if the vitriolic political fight continues in California specifically.  All right, police also arrest a woman after going through her bag that was labeled "definitely not a bag full of drugs." Guess what police found. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [08:56:01] SIDNER: Some news now out of Tennessee. An update on the fatal shooting at a Nashville high school. The AI software that was used by the school did not do what it was supposed to do. It failed to detect firearms. It missed the weapon being brought inside because it was, quote, not visible. It's called Omni Alert. And the makers of the AI gun detection software say this was a case of positioning and the gun being hidden, not the software failing to detect a weapon. Police have confirmed that this same AI system is used inside all Nashville public schools.  All right, a punchline that ended in jail time. A Florida woman was out on bond when police spotted her holding a bag labeled "definitely not a bag full of drugs," which, as it turned out, was definitely a bag full of drugs. Deputies say when they searched the bag they found meth, needles, Narcan, and a load of other drugs. Less than two weeks before that, she was arrested for the same thing.  And just outside of Boston, listen up, Mr. Berman, a suspected bank robber arrested after trying to get away by taking a cab. The driver says the suspect asked him to make a quick stop at the bank before getting back in his cab with a bag full of cash. The cab driver says he didn't have a clue what unfolded inside of that bank. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All he kept saying, my wife is going to kill me. I can understand that. But - (END VIDEO CLIP) SIDNER: Well, police eventually pulled over the cab and arrested the suspect, who is no doubt in a lot of trouble with his wife this morning.  John Berman.  BERMAN: It's like a scene "Out on the Town," the great Ben Affleck movie right there.  SIDNER: Seriously. BERMAN: I think I saw that one.  All right, this morning, a new CNN film chronicles the life of the late movie star Christopher Reeve. Of course, Superman. But his greatest role may have come after that as an advocate for the latest science to help spinal cord injury patients like himself.  Dr. Sanjay Gupta has the story.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHRISTOPHER REEVE: These cells have the potential to cure diseases and conditions ranging from Parkinsons and MS, to diabetes, heart disease, Alzheimer's, Lou Gehrig's, even spinal cord injuries, like my own.  DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Christopher Reeve wouldn't live to see stem cells possibly help with his own paralysis, but nearly 30 years after his accident, spinal cord injury patients like Jake Javier are now reaping the benefits.  JAKE JAVIER, SPINAL CORD INJURY PATIENT: So, it was actually my last day of high school. And I was over at a friend's house. And we were swimming. I just jumped out a little too far, and ended up hitting my head where it started to get a bit shallow. And hit my head on the bottom and broke my neck.  GUPTA (voice over): Like Reeve, Jake was also left paralyzed. Instead of walking with San Ramon Valley High School's graduating class of 2016, Jake was weighing whether or not to try an experimental treatment based on stem cells.  JAVIER: I didn't know a whole lot about it, but I knew that it could potentially help me or, you know, potentially help others. And I didn't see a lot of risk in it. So, I decided to do it.  BRIAN CULLEY, CEO, LINEAGE CELL THERAPEUTICS: Stem cells can become, by definition, any of the cells of the human body. They just need the instructions and the information.  GUPTA (voice over): Brian Culley is the CEO of Lineage Cell Therapeutics.  CULLEY: We convert those stem cells into the actual cells that comprise and make up the spinal cord.  GUPTA (voice over): Think of the spinal cord as the nervous systems interstate with these electrical impulses, sending messages from your brain to other parts of your body. Now to send those messages more efficiently, a conductive sheath of fat and protein, known as myelin, wraps around the nerves. But when the spinal cord is injured, the myelin can become damaged as well.  GUPTA: When you've actually injected these cells into the spinal cord in someone like Jake, what sort of results have you been seeing?  CULLEY: To date, 30 individuals have received these cells. The initial objective was to demonstrate the safety.  [09:00:01] But the data which we collected and the conversations that we had with the surgeons really encouraged us that there was some improvement that was somewhat. 