(COMMERCIAL BREAK) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is CNN Breaking News. BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: We're following breaking news on Capitol Hill. The Senate has passed its cloture vote on President Trump's choice for defense secretary, Pete Hegseth. Though Republican senator, Susan Collins, just released a statement saying she will vote no on that nomination. Let's go straight to Capitol Hill with CNN's Manu Raju. Manu, does this essentially mean that Hegseth is going to be confirmed eventually as Defense Secretary? MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It certainly does. After a bitter fight over the last several weeks over Pete Hegseth's nomination, questions among Democrats about whether he is qualified for the post, and questions about his past misconduct allegations, which he has denied, Pete Hegseth is now on the verge of becoming the next Secretary of Defense, one of the most critical positions in the United States government in charge of setting defense policy and in charge of the armed forces and the like. This position now looks Pete Hegseth could fill this position as soon as tomorrow night. That is when the final confirmation vote at the moment has been scheduled. They could even move up sooner, but that's when we expect it by tomorrow night. Now, this vote came down to the wire. Two Republicans ultimately broke ranks, 51-49 was the vote to overcome this final procedural hurdle. Those two Republicans, Sen. Lisa Murkowski and Sen. Susan Collins, both of them questioning his fitness for the job. Murkowski, in particular, went after - questioned his character. And Susan Collins, just moments ago, issuing a statement about why she is a no on this nomination. She said that she is concerned he does not have the experience and perspective necessary to do the job. She went on and raised a number of concerns, one of which was his past opposition, recent opposition to - for women in combat in the military, something that he has walked back, revised as he has gone through this confirmation process. But still, that was not sufficient for Collins. But despite their opposition, they were the only two Republicans to break ranks. All Democrats voted no, and in the 53-47 Senate, you need to have four Republicans breaking ranks along party lines. This time with just two, that is enough for Donald Trump to ultimately get his man for this critical post in the most controversial vote of this new Senate, now on his way to getting the job as soon as tomorrow night after this vote just cleared the United States Senate, guys. SANCHEZ: And Manu, quickly, there was some question as to how certain Senators were going to land on this. Senator John Fetterman of Pennsylvania expressed openness to Hegseth. He ultimately voted no. On the other side, the former Senate Majority Leader, Mitch McConnell, had expressed some hesitation, and he ultimately wound up voting for Hegseth. RAJU: Yes. And actually, McConnell didn't really say anything, which is why that people had a lot of questions about where he ultimately would come down, and he is someone to watch, given his view on National Security issues. But he has yet to put out a statement about why he ultimately decided to vote to advance this nomination. Ultimately, McConnell tends to provide deference, particularly to Republican presidential presidencies and, perhaps, that was one reason why here - John Fetterman is someone who has toyed with potentially supporting Republican - some of Donald Trump's picks, has backed Marco Rubio, for one, as every other senator did, and potentially could back some other ones down the line. Interestingly, Hegseth really did not meet with any - many Democratic senators. Typically, throughout a confirmation process for something so significant, you meet with Democrats and Republicans alike. They really did not meet with many Democrats. But Fetterman was the first Senate Democrat, even though he does not sit on the Armed Services Committee that oversees this process, Fetterman had opened the door to potentially supporting him. But voting no here, showing you how contentious and how partisan this fight will be, even as, of course, National Security issues often work along our bipartisan - but in this fight, a very partisan battle about Hegseth, his qualifications, and whether he's the right person for the job, but ultimately winning enough GOP support to get there, guys? SANCHEZ: Manu Raju, live with the update from Capitol Hill. Thank you so much, Manu. Erica? ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR AND NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: We're also following some breaking legal news. A federal judge blocking President Trump's effort to end birthright citizenship in the United States, calling that order, quote, "blatantly unconstitutional." Earlier today, Trump also addressed global leaders at The World Economic Forum in Switzerland, where he repeated his threat to slap tariffs on companies that don't choose to make their products in the United States. CNN Chief National Affairs Correspondent, Jeff Zeleny, is at the White House. Here in the studio, CNN Chief Legal Affairs Correspondent Paula Reid is with me. Paula, let's begin with you. In terms of this setback for Donald Trump today in court, this judge was very clear in the language in noting why this is sort of a non-starter, according to this judge. [15:05:03] PAULA REID, CNN CHIEF LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: And this was very much expected. Historically, when folks challenge executive action by presidents, they file their claim in a jurisdiction where they think they have a pretty good chance of temporarily pausing a policy while the larger legal questions are litigated. Now, most legal experts believe that President Trump has an uphill battle here, but the battle has just begun. Because, of course, birthright citizenship, this has been recognized in our Constitution to automatically make anyone born in the U.S. or U.S. territory a citizen. But Trump is arguing, his lawyers will argue for him, that this provision has been misinterpreted, and they would like the courts to revisit this really for the first time in a hundred years. Now, Trump floated this in his first term, but this was one of these executive orders that he signed on Monday. They all expected, they told me, that this would be challenged in court. This particular order is already facing five lawsuits. And the challengers argue that this is enshrined in our Constitution, and to restrict birthright citizenship is a violation of our values, and they even go so far as to call it cruel. But the Trump lawyers, they argue that parents without legal status are not subject to U.S. jurisdiction, which is a key part of the 14th Amendment, and not entitled - so their children are not entitled to U.S. citizenship. They also make other political arguments about the threat to National Security and how this system has been abused by wealthy people who fly here to give birth to their children, so they have that right, that citizenship. But today, the Reagan-appointed judge was not in a mood to reconsider the 14th Amendment, saying, quote, "I have been on the bench for over four decades, I can't remember another case where the question presented was as clear." Now, look, it's really, this would be up to the Supreme Court to rescind birthright citizenship. It's going to take a while for the case to get there. Most legal experts think that they're not going to be able to convince the Supreme Court to restrict birthright citizenship. But, Erica, we have seen the conservative supermajority side with Trump in some cases where all the experts said they wouldn't. HILL: Right. And we've heard some conservatives say that's sort of the goal, right? REID: Yes. HILL: They want it to get to the Supreme Court, because they want this settled by the highest court in the land. We will see as it continues to play out. Paula, thank you. As I mentioned, Jeff Zeleny is at the White House. Jeff, earlier today, Donald Trump delivering his first major speech since, of course, he returned to the White House addressing business and political leaders at The World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. And he came out with a pretty strong message. JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Erica, he did. It's certainly a forum that he was eager to address. He couldn't be there in person, so he did so virtually as he did a couple of times actually in person during his first term in office. But he was - had a bit of a defiant message and a warning for world business leaders who do not do business with the U.S. He threatened them with across-the- board tariffs. Of course, tariffs are actually paid by consumers, not necessarily businesses. But this was his message to world leaders at Davos. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: My message to every business in the world is very simple: Come make your product in America, and we will give you among the lowest taxes of any nation on Earth. But if you don't make your product in America, which is your prerogative, then, very simply, you will have to pay a tariff - differing amounts, but a tariff - will direct hundreds of billions of dollars and even trillions of dollars into our Treasury to strengthen our economy and pay down debt. (END VIDEO CLIP) ZELENY: So, look, firing a bit of a warning shot there, if you will. Of course, trying to urge businesses to do business in America. That was his theme, America is open for business. Once again, talking about how he has reduced regulation. The speech, though, was also a mix of really backward-looking, railing against the Biden administration and also urging that interest rates be lowered here in the U.S. and around the world. Of course, the President does not set interest rates. That's the independent body of the feds. So, just one more example there of the President. You know, he has the power of the pen, there's no question, the power of the presidency, but it does not extend to legislative power and certainly interest rates as well, but came in with certainly a confident attitude, a bit of a boisterous one, sending that message to world leaders, Erica. HILL: Yes, absolutely. Jeff, appreciate it. Thank you. Boris? SANCHEZ: U.S. officials say they are aggressively bolstering security at the southern border as President Trump ramps up his immigration crackdown. Officials say some 1,500 troops are set to deploy there by the end of the week. Meantime, Trump is also threatening to cut off funding for sanctuary cities. Listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TRUMP: We're trying to get rid of them, we're trying to end them and a lot of the people in those communities don't want them. You know, California is a big example. SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS HOST: When would you cut off their money? TRUMP: I might have to do that. Sometimes that's the only thing you can do. (END VIDEO CLIP) SANCHEZ: Joining us now to discuss is Democratic Congressman Adriano Espaillat. He's the chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the first formerly undocumented member of Congress. [15:10:00] Sir, thank you so much for being with us. Before we get to the conversation about immigration, I want to get your reaction to the cloture vote in the Senate that puts Pete Hegseth on track to become the next defense secretary. What do you make of that? REP. ADRIANO ESPAILLAT (D-N): Well, I think that enough has been said in the hearings to put seriously in question his ability to lead that important department. And the questions came from experts in defense. And so not just his history of potentially bad behavior personally, but his ability to lead such a huge department and sophisticated and complicated department is in question and still remains in question. And, of course, that puts into question whether, in fact, America will be secure. SANCHEZ: Congressman, on the issue of immigration, there is now debate internally among Democrats about how to approach this issue that was seen as a liability in the last election. I know the Congressional Hispanic Caucus held this closed-door meeting yesterday. As the Laken Riley Act now heads to Trump's desk and Republicans prep additional legislation, is there a consensus among Democrats? ESPAILLAT: There is a consensus within the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to take on three major linchpins in the very broad immigration debate. As you know, immigration is not just about one issue. And those are dreamers, farmworkers and families. I think we all agree that dreamers, over 80 percent of the American people, agree that dreamers should be regularized and they should be part of our economy and our nation. Farmworkers are essential to keep the cost of produce and products down. And farmworkers are staying home because they're afraid they're going to be arrested and deported. And then families must be kept together, because a family that's split, a mom that's split from his little girl or little boy, is a weak family, and that makes a weak nation. We agree that these are the three points. We're willing to have a discussion about border security, but these three are fundamental to our caucus. SANCHEZ: I wonder specifically about New York City, because the NYPD commissioner reminded officers yesterday not to assist ICE in any civil immigration enforcement. The administration, as you know, is vowing to punish local officials who don't comply with mass deportation efforts. How much risk do you think these local officials are facing if they don't comply with ICE? ESPAILLAT: We'll see, but I know that any aggressive action, such as a mass deportation effort, gets messy if not inhumane. And I don't think New York City or any city wants to be part of any practices that are messy or inhumane. And so, law enforcement, federal law enforcement, is in charge of enforcing federal laws. I am glad that New York City and the New York City Police Department will be going after the bad guys on the street of New York City, and that being a federal agency. I'm comfortable with that decision. SANCHEZ: But if the supremacy clause in the Constitution essentially lays out that federal policy overrides local law, are there any protections legally that those officials might have? ESPAILLAT: Well, I tell you, there's been a very rough misinterpretation of what a sanctuary city is, in fact. It's not a city that harbors violent criminals. There are laws already in the books that will ensure that violent criminals are arrested, convicted and deported. What a sanctuary city does, in fact, it allows a mom to take her daughter or son to school without the fear that the principal is going to call the ICE on her. It allows a senior citizen to go into the emergency room without the fear that the nurse is going to call the authorities on her. It allows a mother or a woman that's a victim of domestic violence to be able to go to a precinct without the fear that the precinct commander will get her cuffed, arrested and deported. That's what a sanctuary city is. It's a safety net that protects those that are vulnerable in our communities. SANCHEZ: What is in place, Congressman, to stop funding from being offered to New York and other sanctuary cities, as the president is vowing he might do if they don't go along with mass deportation? ESPAILLAT: Well, I am an appropriator. I sit on the Appropriations Committee and we will be going through all funding possibilities. And at that juncture, we will see what will be their efforts to cut any type of funding to any city. I think it is a mistake. Cities deserve to have public safety. You cannot cut funding for public safety because of this and allow to have over 1,500 violent criminals, felons, released into our communities, as the President just did. It is just contradictory. And if the Republican Party is the party of law and order, this is a grave mistake. [15:15:02] SANCHEZ: Congressman, one final question. You are the first Dominican American member of the U.S. House. I wonder what your reaction is to hearing that the new Secretary of State, Marco Rubio, is making his first trip abroad to Latin America, and specifically to the DR. ESPAILLAT: Well, Marco Rubio, I have one work with Marco Rubio. He's a friend of the Dominican Republic. He's been there before we, you know, we had great conversations with the Dominican president. I'm glad he chose the Dominican Republic as his first stop. The Dominican Republic is an ally of the United States. And I look forward working across the aisle with the new Secretary of State to make things better between both of our countries. SANCHEZ: All right. Congressman Adriano Espaillat, we have to leave the conversation there. Thank you so much for the time, sir. ESPAILLAT: Thank you. Thank you for having me. SANCHEZ: Of course. Still ahead, wildfires are exploding again in Southern California, flames scorching L.A. and Ventura counties as dangerous fire weather conditions persist. Plus, Trump's Justice Department halting police reform agreements in cities where misconduct by officers has been found. What it could mean for law enforcement when we come back. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [15:20:35] HILL: Now is the time to be preparing. That's exactly what forecasters are telling residents in the Los Angeles area who are close to this latest inferno burning the Hughes fire. The blaze broke out on Wednesday morning. It is now rapidly spread, covering more than 10,000 acres. And at this point, it's just 14 percent contained. Tens of thousands of people right now are under some kind of evacuation order or warning. We have more on the conditions now. My colleague, Natasha Chen, standing by. She is in Castaic at the edge of that fire. How are conditions? How have they been changing throughout the day? NATASHA CHEN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Erica, the winds throughout today have picked up a little bit. So that's what they're trying to manage and make sure that these flames don't kick back up. But since yesterday and overnight, there have been favorable conditions really in their favor. This whole area burned yesterday and overnight. And so now they're just trying to maintain the lines and control hotspots. You actually see a couple of inmate crews right now working to do exactly that. California has hundreds of inmate crews working alongside firefighters throughout this whole ordeal this past month, something that they've been trained to do. So, we're seeing them at work right now. Now, there are tens of thousands of people still evacuated from this area waiting to see if it's controlled enough so that they can come back home. But, you know, again, like you said, this is a situation highly dependent on how strong the wind gusts are. We've been told that had the winds been as strong as they were that first day of the Palisades fire, this would have been all bets off. But because the winds were favorable and that the fire started a little bit more of a distance away from residential areas, they lucked out here. So far, no reports of structural damage or injuries, which is a really good indication here. They are also managing that - what's to come this weekend, because as you mentioned, there could be rain this coming weekend. There could be landslides, especially in burn scars like this. HILL: All right. Natasha, I really appreciate it. Thank you. Boris? SANCHEZ: Southern California's firefighters have been at this for weeks now. Their resources stretch to the limits. So, we want to get more on the fight with Captain Sheila Kelliher Berkoh with the Los Angeles County Fire Department. Thank you so much for being with us, Captain. I do want to get an update first on the Hughes fire. What's the status of containment there? CAPT. SHEILA KELLIHER BERKOH, SPOKESPERSON, LOS ANGELES COUNTY FIRE: So, we do have some great news. Your reporters just reported 14 percent, but we are now up to 24 percent and that's due to the aggressive firefight last night. The firefighters on the ground, along with the air attack and the dozers, they put a lot of work in and did an incredible job really knocking the heat out of this fire. And those winds definitely laid down a bit, which helped us get the upper hand on this fire. SANCHEZ: And, Captain, I understand that at last check, there weren't any reports of structural damages or injuries from the Hughes fire. Is that still the case? BERKOH: That is still the case. That was our primary mission. As that fire burned to the southwest, that neighborhood and those communities sat right there. So, they hit the front of this fire and really, really protected that community and kept it out of there. SANCHEZ: We are relieved to hear that. Another fire, I understand, broke out this morning, the so-called Laguna fire. Can you give us an update on that? BERKOH: Yes, that just came in over here since we're on that fire. It looks like they definitely have enough resources to keep that in check. It didn't look like extremely large fire. The wind was kind of making it a bit squirrely, but it looks like they're getting their arms around that one as well. SANCHEZ: I do want to ask you about these Altadena residents who were affected by the Eaton fire. Some of them say that they didn't actually receive evacuation orders. Some of the evacuation alerts were delayed. Do you have any update on what might have led to those gaps in communication? And do you have confidence in the evacuation alert system? BERKOH: That's a great question that everybody is looking at because you have multi-agencies and multi-cities within that jurisdiction. So, that is something that is what the officials are looking at right now, trying to come up with the answers on what didn't work right or what did work right. So, they are still gathering the facts on that, trying to figure out what happened. Beyond my pay grade at this moment, but they are really looking into it to figure out what's going on. [15:25:02] SANCHEZ: Yes, and hopefully some kind of resolution can come so it doesn't happen again. BERKOH: Yes. SANCHEZ: I wonder, Captain, President Trump is set to visit Southern California tomorrow. I wonder if he's going to get a briefing from the L.A. Fire Department and what else might be on the schedule. BERKOH: We're just hearing rumors of that, that he's going to be out here. So, that's what we do with all the dignitaries and officials that come out that want the understanding of the lay of the land. They'll definitely get a full briefing on just not this fire, but the Palisades, the Eaton. So, they really get a grasp of the size and scope of what we're up against. And this fire wasn't as bad as it could have been because it had 40 to 60-mile-an-hour gusts where I was on the Palisades fire the day it started through the whole thing, and those hundred-mile-an-hour winds were just incredible and just unreal. SANCHEZ: Yes. So, seeing some of those pictures, it was difficult to believe that it was happening. And, obviously, it's affected so many people, which is why we want to keep an eye on these other fires as they spark. Captain Sheila Kelliher Berkoh, thank you so much for the time. Appreciate you joining us. BERKOH: Thank you. SANCHEZ: Still ahead, the Trump administration is putting a stop on federal police reform agreements in Louisville and Minneapolis. We'll talk about the message this is now sending to other departments, stay with us. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 