[15:30:00]  BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: 60-some years after the assassination of John F. Kennedy, the FBI says it's uncovered more than 2,000 new records about the 1963 killing that were not previously known of. The Bureau said officials made the discovery after President Trump's executive order last month prompted them to launch a new search. CNN's Jamie Gangel and Evan Perez join us now. Jamie, what do these new records say? What is actually in them? JAMIE GANGEL, CNN SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT: We don't know. Let's get back. So here are the numbers which we do know. We're told it's about 2,400 documents, but 14,000 pages. So if you're a National Archives nerd, that's about six boxes of documents. So what would we like to know, of course? What's in them? We don't know yet. Where did they find them? We don't know yet. Why were they missing all of these years? We do not know yet. But eventually they will be turned over to the archives. And unless there's something that's very sensitive in national security, we should see them shortly. SANCHEZ: Evan, this is obviously happening after President Trump ordered the release of these documents tied to the assassinations of JFK, Robert F. Kennedy, and Martin Luther King Jr. He, in his first term, tried to unseal some of these documents, but ultimately was talked out of it by the CIA. Are we actually going to see these documents this time, or could they get blocked again? EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: My prediction is that he's going to run into the same issue because there are still some national security secrets that are in these documents. And this is why this is going to be like the forever Netflix show, right? We can forever will have this mystery out there. Listen to Kash Patel, who says he took a look at these documents during the first administration. Listen to what he says about them. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I never believed that the CIA killed Kennedy.  KASH PATEL, FBI DIRECTOR NOMINEE: No. You're talking to a guy that's read the entire JFK file. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You've seen all the secret stuff?  PATEL: Yes, I've seen all of that, and I've seen the seven pages of the 9-11 report. I've seen it all. (END VIDEO CLIP) PEREZ: And what he goes on to say here is that the documents that are being withheld don't answer the questions that we all have or that certainly are fueling the conspiracy theories. And by the way, those are still alive today. As a matter of fact, apparently today in Congress, Representative Anna Paulina Luna, a representative from Florida, back in where we are from. GANGEL: Me too. PEREZ: And you, that's right. She addressed some of the issues and the questions that persist to this day. Listen to this. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) REP. ANNA PAULINA LUNA (R-FL): I can tell you, based on what I've been seeing so far, the initial hearing that was actually held here in Congress was actually faulty in the single bullet theory. I believe that there were two shooters. And we should be finding more information as we are able to gain access into the SCIF, hopefully before the files are actually released to the public. (END VIDEO CLIP) PEREZ: I mean, look, so to be clear, we've seen no evidence to indicate that there's anything to this, right? But to Jamie's point, you know, we've got these boxes that have been found. It appears that something, what happened with the FBI is that, you know, you had old records that were not filed correctly or categorized correctly. So they didn't know they existed until an order from President Biden to digitize these documents. And so that's how they found these additional documents. Whether they will answer that persistent question that is still out there, and I think, you know, obviously we should keep a mind open, we'll see. [15:35:00] GANGEL: For clarity, there are documents that we understand the CIA has and for national security. And it sounds like that's what Kash Patel was referring to. So those have not been released. Our understanding is they haven't been handed over at the National Archives.  What will be interesting with these FBI documents, did they get lost somewhere in the system? And that's what happened? Or was there a conscious decision made not to hand them over? I think we will know shortly. SANCHEZ: It leads to another layer of intrigue. I highly doubt, though, Jamie, that if one of these conspiracy theories were true, that the CIA somehow had an involvement in Kennedy's assassination, that somebody would sit there and type out, yes, it was the CIA, and that this would have been filed away. Do we think in any way these documents are going to settle this debate? GANGEL: Are you starting a new conspiracy theory? SANCHEZ: I'm repeating what's out there.  GANGEL: I just want to be clear here.  SANCHEZ: I'm just repeating what's out there. PEREZ: The Internet says it.  SANCHEZ: That's some of the insinuation here. And also it leads to a question of what is the CIA trying to keep secret after 60 years? Like the Cold War theoretically ended, right? So, why -- PEREZ: There are still things. There are still methods that are used to eavesdrop on other countries that are still in use today, that are still useful for the CIA and the intelligence agencies. GANGEL: So, you know, maybe some of those sources and methods are why the CIA. There could be a relatively innocent explanation. SANCHEZ: That's what they want you to think. Jamie Gangel, Evan Perez appreciate the conversation. Thank you both so much. Still ahead, Trump administration officials say they have secured the release of Marc Fogel, an American teacher detained for more than three years in Russia. This is a new image of Fogel celebrating his release. We have the details coming up. [15:40:00] (COMMERCIAL BREAK) SANCHEZ: News into CNN. We're getting our first glimpse at American teacher Marc Fogel, who was just released after being detained in Russia for more than three years. You see he appears to be in a celebratory mood. This photo was posted on social media by the Trump administration's envoy for hostages. The White House announcing earlier today that it had secured Fogel's release as part of an exchange after he was wrongfully detained. Let's get more detail from CNN senior international correspondent Frederick Pleitgen, who is in Moscow for us. Fred, what more are you learning about this release? FRED PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi there, Boris. We were tracking this pretty much for the entire day today here in Moscow. It really was unclear what exactly was building up, but it was clear that something was building up. Early in the morning today, it was clear that a plane belonging to Steve Witkoff had landed here in Moscow, and it appeared as though that plane was coming directly from the United States. Now, of course, no one knew exactly why that plane had made its way over here. The Russians had said that this was a regular scheduled humanitarian flight. It was quite interesting because the spokesman for the Kremlin, Dmitry Peskov, he was asked why this plane was all of a sudden on the ground here in the Russian capital, and he said that there was nothing to it and that he had nothing further to add to that.  It was not until the late evening hours that the White House then came out with that statement saying that Marc Fogel, who had been in Russian detention for four years, that he has now been released and was on his way home. I want to read a little bit of that White House statement because I do think that it is quite interesting. There's one sentence where they say, quote, President Trump, Steve Witkoff and the president's advisers negotiated an exchange that serves as a show of good faith from the Russians and a sign that we are moving in the right direction to end the brutal and terrible war in Ukraine. Now, the Trump administration speaking about an exchange, it's unclear what exactly the Russians are getting for their side from that exchange, but also the Trump administration making clear that to all of them, this is part of their sort of larger effort to try and end the war in Ukraine.  Then finally, of course, this was a huge ordeal, Boris, for the Fogel family. His wife was here in Moscow when he was detained coming back from the United States in 2021. I want to read you a statement that they just put out a couple of minutes ago, and they said, quote, We are beyond grateful, relieved, and overwhelmed that after more than three years of detention, our father, husband, and son, Marc Fogel, is finally coming home. This have been the darkest and most painful period of our lives, but today, we begin to heal.  So, obviously, the Fogel's very grateful again as this long ordeal finally for them comes to an end -- Boris. SANCHEZ: Yes, a really significant development. Fred Pleitgen, live from Moscow. Thank you so much. President Trump has vowed to make Greenland great again. Next, what do Greenlanders think of Trump's interest in buying their land? [15:45:00] (COMMERCIAL BREAK) SANCHEZ: President Trump's controversial bid to take over Greenland could get a boost from Senate Republicans. They've scheduled a hearing on Capitol Hill tomorrow to focus on what they describe as the strategic significance of Greenland to the American economy and national security. The autonomous Danish territory is not for sale, but how do Greenlanders feel about President Trump's interest in acquiring their land? CNN's Donie O'Sullivan packed warm to find out. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) QUPANUK OLSON, GREENLAND ELECTORAL CANDIDATE: I really want this statue gone. DONIE O'SULLIVAN, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Why? OLSON: Because why should he be up there? Why isn't it a Greenlander up there? Trump wants to buy my country, Greenland. O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): This is Qupanuk Olson. OLSON: Today, Mikko and I are having whale skin. O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): She's known as Greenland's biggest influencer, and she's running in the island's upcoming elections. She's a native Greenlander, and for her, this statue of an 18th century missionary is a daily reminder of Denmark's control of her country. O'SULLIVAN: So you would like to be independent of Denmark? OLSON: Yes. O'SULLIVAN: But that doesn't mean you want to be part of the USA? OLSON: No, I don't. I don't want to become a part of the USA. I definitely don't. O'SULLIVAN: You don't want to be an American? OLSON: No. O'SULLIVAN: Why not? OLSON: Why should I? Why should we just be taken by another colonizer? O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Native Greenlanders or Inuit make up almost 90 percent of Greenland's population. O'SULLIVAN: Is all this interest in Greenland because of Trump, is it a good thing or is it a bad thing? OLSON: In my opinion, it's a good thing because it's speeding up our independence process, so I see it as a good thing. O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): When the Nazis took over Denmark during World War II, the United States stepped in to protect Greenland. [15:50:00] O'SULLIVAN: The U.S. military has had a presence here on Greenland for decades, but in the capital, one of the very few signs of the United States is this, the U.S. consulate, which was reopened by President Trump in his first term in 2020. TOM DANS, FORMER U.S. ARCTIC COMMISSIONER: Americans died for this country. In my own family, my grandfather watched his shipmates die. O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Another sign of the U.S. here is Tom Dans, who was appointed to the U.S. Arctic Research Commission during Trump's first presidency. O'SULLIVAN: When Trump first brought up Greenland, people treated it like it was a joke. People thought, that's crazy. But you're saying it's not so crazy. DANS: It's not crazy at all. Greenland, due to its geographic position, is kind of the front door for North America.  O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): The U.S. is jostling with Russia and others for Arctic dominance. Military bases here are prime real estate for satellite and missile detection systems. O'SULLIVAN: So this is Danish Navy? OLSON: This is the Danish Navy, yes. O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Greenland currently relies on Denmark for security and financial support. O'SULLIVAN: You think Greenland can survive without this, with out the support of Denmark? OLSON: We will definitely need an agreement with another country, either with, or still continue the agreement with Denmark, with military, or go with U.S. or Canada. O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Climate change is opening up new shipping routes in the Arctic that the U.S. want to control. O'SULLIVAN: The Greenlanders, you've spoken to, excited about a closer relationship with the U.S.? DANS: Absolutely. You know, I'm talking with businessmen, investors, entrepreneurs. Tremendous things are happening. O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): And another appeal of Greenland for Trump is its many natural resources. DANS: Fishing, tourism, mining, security investments, logistics. The hard thing is deciding where to start first. O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Tom Dans does not have a role in the current administration, but he did campaign for Trump in the last election, along with Greenlander Jorgen Boassen. JORGEN BOASSEN, GREENLANDIC TRUMP SUPPORTER: He's been known as Trump's son here. O'SULLIVAN: I mean, maybe you could be. O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Jorgen has made multiple trips to the U.S. in recent months, even campaigning for Trump in Pennsylvania. O'SULLIVAN: Do you want Greenland to be part of the United States? BOASSEN: Not of 51 states, but best and closest ally with everything, with defense, mining, oil exploration and trade and everything. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK, we are here in Greenland with Don Jr. O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): In January, another sign of the United States here. Donald Trump Jr. arriving on the plane dubbed Trump Force One. It's all a sign here for some that there's a lot more to come. OLSON: The feeling when I saw the plane was kind of excitement, but also like, should I be nervous now? And like the realization of Trump's words are no longer just words. Now they have become the reality. O'SULLIVAN: And Greenlanders will go to the polls here next month in an election where Donald Trump and the United States is expected to loom large. So much so that just last week, the parliament here fast tracked new legislation, a law banning foreign political donations here that is very much seen as something that is in response to the renewed and intense interest from the United States. Back to you. (END VIDEOTAPE) SANCHEZ: Our thanks to Donie O'Sullivan for that report.  Coming up, why this Valentine's Day you might want to go with flowers or a card instead of chocolate. [15:55:00] (COMMERCIAL BREAK) SANCHEZ: Valentine's Day is this Friday. Check the calendar. That is correct. It is Friday, so, procrastinators, consider this your reminder. And this year, you may want to reconsider that romantic box of chocolates. It's going to cost more. Cocoa prices are at a record high, more than doubling from a year ago, making it harder to find a sweet deal.  CNN's Vanessa Yurkevich joins us now. Vanessa, why are chocolate prices more expensive? VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, so this year, you're going to see prices up 10 percent to 20 percent because of those prices of cocoa beans. That's what's used to make chocolate, and they're nearly double in just the last year. On the market, which trades cocoa beans, prices last February were about $4,000 for a metric ton. In December, it hit a record $12,000 for a metric ton. And this is all because of the growing conditions in West Africa. That's where the world gets the majority of its cocoa beans. Weather conditions haven't been so great. It's either been too dry or too wet. There's also been a virus that has infected the cocoa trees, and manufacturing costs have been up. For cocoa producers and chocolatiers, the price to manufacture with cocoa beans is up 167 percent in just the last year. We've heard from companies like Lindt. They've had to raise their prices. Also, Mondelez International, who owns Cadbury and Toblerone, they're also saying that they've faced unprecedented cocoa inflation. A little bit of good news. Hershey says that they buy their cocoa beans a year in advance, so they've skirted some of those higher prices. And a tip for folks out there. If you want to save a little bit, look for chocolate made with cocoa powder, not 100 percent cocoa. You'll save a little bit there. But, you know, everyone wants the good stuff on Valentine's Day, Boris. SANCHEZ: Yes, you've got to splurge. Vanessa, quickly, do you have any sense that prices might come down? [16:00:00] YURKEVICH: Cocoa futures are still trending up, looking up about 143 percent. It really depends on the weather, Boris. One thing we are seeing is that other countries are getting in the mix, like Ecuador. They're starting to grow their own cocoa trees. But percent, it really depends on the weather, Boris. One thing we are seeing is that other countries are getting in the mix, like Ecuador. They're starting to grow their own cocoa trees. But, Boris, it takes four to six years for those trees to be available for harvest. So a long-term solution, not an immediate fix -- Boris. SANCHEZ: Vanessa Yurkevich, thank you so much. If you really want to flex and get your loved one a luxury item, buy them a dozen eggs. Thanks so much, Vanessa. "THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper starts right now. END 