[08:30:00]  DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: But one foot (ph) you can't miss. It was the equivalent of a one foot putt is what he told me. He said - in fact he gained some religion. He gained - he went up 25 percent. And if you know him, that's a lot. But he said there had to be somebody that saved you. And I think I know who it is. And he looked up. And I said, whoa, Don, that's come - you've come a long way. He's a good guy.  But they - my two sons just really couldn't believe it. Had I not turned that right turn just at that time - and the audience, 55,000 people standing this way, there was just a few people in the back on the bleachers. There was nobody over there except for my all-time favorite chart in history, a chart on immigration. Immigration saved my life. See? So we're going to be good for immigration, OK. But had I not made that turn, boom, and quickly, it was almost as though a deer bolted. You know, they say the only way you miss when you're a good shot is if it bolts. I bolted. I turned to the right to look at the chart and I said, wow, what was that? What was that?  So, you never know. But God did that. I mean, it had to be. The chances of turning - there's no reason to turn to the right. You know, the chart is rarely brought down. I brought it down maybe 20 percent. And - 20 percent of the time. And it's never on my right. It's always on my left. And it's always at the end of the speech, never the beginning of the speech. And if I was a little more than that 90 degree angle, it would be no good. And if I was a little less, it would be no good. It had to be perfect. The thing went, shh, right along the edge. It didn't affect my hair, can you believe it? That's just - might have touched it, but not where it counts. Not - not the skin part, but it's - no, honestly, it's a miracle. It changed - it changed something. I mean I feel - I feel even stronger. I believed in God, but I feel - I feel much more strongly about it. Something happened.  So, thank you. Thank you.  But that event, like the tragedy last week, should remind us all that we have to make the most out of every single day that we have. Who would think that you're in space and two things collide. The odds of that happening are so small. Even without proper control. We should have had the proper control. We should have had better equipment. We don't. We have obsolete equipment. They were understaffed for whatever reason. I guess the helicopter was high. And we'll find out exactly what happened.  But the odds, even if you had nothing, if you had nobody, the odds of that happening are extremely small. It's like, did you ever see - you go to a driving range in golf and you're hitting balls, hundreds of balls, thousands of hours. I never see a ball hit another ball. Balls going up all over the place. You never see them hit. It was amazing that that could happen. It was a lot of mistakes made, and it should have never happened. But regardless of that, it's amazing that it happened.  And I think that's going to be used for good. I think what is going to happen is we're all going to sit down and do a great computerized system for our control towers, brand new, not pieced together, obsolete, like it is land-based, trying to hook up a land-based system to a satellite system. And the first thing that some experts told me when this happened is, you can't hook up land to satellites, and you can't hook up satellites to land. It doesn't work. We spent billions and billions of dollars trying to renovate an old, broken system instead of just saying, cut it loose and let's spend less money and build a great system done by two or three companies. Very good companies. Specialists. That's all it is. They used 39 companies. That means that 39 different hookups have to happen. And I don't know how many people are - of you are good in terms of all of the kind of things necessary for that. And it's very complex stuff.  But when you have 39 different companies working on hooking up different cities at different people, you need one company with one set of equipment. And there are some - some countries that have unbelievable air controller systems. And they would have - bells would have gone off when that helicopter literally even hit the same height because it traveled a long distance before it hit. It was just like - just wouldn't stop. It was - you know, follow the line. [08:35:03] But bells and whistles would have gone off. They have on board - actually - actually could virtually turn the thing around. It would have just never happened if we had the right equipment. And one of the things that's going to be - I'm going to be speaking to John and to Mike and to Chuck and to everybody. We have to get together and just, as a single bill, just pass where we get the best control system.  When I land in my plane, privately, I use a system from another country because my captain tells me I'm landing in New York and I'm using a system - I won't tell you what country, but I use a system from another country because the captain says, this thing is so bad, it's so obsolete, and we can't have that. So, we're going to have the best system. And a lot of money, but it's not that much money. And it'll happen fast. And it'll be done by total professionals. And when it's done, you're not going to have accidents. It's just not - they're not, they're virtually not possible to have.  Each of us is blessed with a precious chance to help lead America to renew - to renew our pledges of faith and everything else and bring us to new heights and create a future of promise for our people and for ourselves. You know, we have the most important people in the country in a true sense here because you're the ones that are going to make the decision. You're - you're the ones that are leading us into so many different things, whether it's the right air control system or the right size military or what to do and what not to do. Most important people.  And many of you are very religious. I know so many of you are very religious. And I just think that our country has been so badly hurt. We're very hurt by what Covid did to religion. It really hurt it badly. People couldn't go to church for a long period of time. Even going outside, they were given a hard time. And I'm not blaming anybody for that, but it was very hard to gather. So, they started using computers, if that.  And when they come back, it's just, you know, a whole new experience they have to get used to. But it is starting to come back.  We had a fantastic thing happened yesterday. The Army had the best recruitment numbers that they've had in more than 15 years. They think it could be 25 years, actually. They're going to probably put that out. But more than 15 years. Just now.  And we were worried about it. We were talking about it numerous times that, you know, we don't have people joining our military services. We don't have people joining our police force. We have to cherish our police. It's so dangerous. You open a car and somebody starts shooting. They have blackened windows. You don't even have any idea who - who's in the car. Oftentimes they have the dark windows, which are not, in theory, supposed to have, but they have them. The door opens, then a gun is pointed at your face and you can't do a thing about it. It's just nothing you're going to do about it. Your friends will take them out. And it's happened so many times, but you just - it's so - it's such a dangerous thing. We have to cherish these people.  So today we join our hearts and prayers and recommitting to putting our country first. We have to put our country first, making America stronger and greater and more exceptional than ever before. And we have to make religion a much more important factor now. We have to make it an important factor. And if we do that, it's going to be - our job is just going to be much easier. It unifies people, it brings people together. Democrats are going to be able to have lunch again and dinner with Republicans.  And I remember just as, growing up, I'd see, you know, I revered senators and congressmen or something very special, but they were out to dinner all the time. We had an old congressman, maybe some of Sy Halpern from Queens, and he was a friend of my father, but he'd have dinner with - he was a Democrat. But he'd have dinner with Republicans and he'd be at - it wouldn't even make a difference. Today it's like, it's like shocking. And it shouldn't be. You have to get together. We really have to get together. We all know what's right and what's wrong. And there's going to be compromise on both sides. But we have to just do the right thing and we have to get together. You did - you did it with Marco Rubio. You got everybody who was - 99  votes. And the only vote was our VP, who - who maybe we should have been there just to make it 100. But I think I would have been angered if it was 100. That might be a step too far, right?  But, no, it was great to see a vote. Pam Bondi had support from Democrats and some of the others had some pretty good support.  [08:40:05] So, you know, it's - it's doable. We had a recent bill having to do with a very beautiful young lady who was killed from Georgia. And that bill was very bipartisan. It was a very beautiful thing to watch, actually.  And so, I think we just have to, if possible, we have to unify. There's big division. I mean, some people want an open border and some people want a closed border. We want it closed, and they want it open. And that's a big difference. How do you solve that problem? It's a big difference.  Some people want men in women's sports and some people don't. And I - I was with somebody yesterday who was so upset that the bill was signed where men cannot participate in women's sports. And I said - he's a very smart guy, went to a great school, he was a great student, and he actually feels, you know, that that should happen. Men should be able to play, meaning transition into women's sports. And you talk to him and it's just, you know, I don't understand it. I think it - I don't understand how the problem ever got started in the first place. It just seems so simple. But he's a good person and just believes it. And just believes it. It's not going to be easy to convince him otherwise.  So, where is a middle ground? It's just hard to have a middle ground. There's two ways. I mean, you can either do it or you can't.  But I think a lot of good things are going to happen. You know, a lot of people might be surprised to hear me say that of all people, but I think a lot of good things are going to happen because our country's got some big headaches. But we have tremendous spirit right now. The spirit is as high as it's been. It was up 49 points this morning, 49 points. That's a - that's - that's never been - it's the biggest increase in the history of whatever the poll was.  So, the spirit is there. That's a big factor. That's probably the hardest thing to get back, to be honest. The rest is easy. The rest is easy.  So, I want to just thank you all. I want to congratulate a lot of the new members. I see so many of you that ran great races, David. That was a - that was a great race. But so many that ran great races and - on both sides. You ran some incredible races. So, it's good to be with you. And God bless everybody. We want to come together and - the happiest person, the - the - the element, the everything that's going to be happy. People of religion are going to be happy again. And I really believe you can't be happy without religion, without that belief. I really believe it. I just don't see how you can be.  So, let's bring religion back. Let's bring God back into our lives.  Thank you all very much. Thank you very much. Great honor. Thank you.  SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: All right, that was President Donald Trump at the Prayer Breakfast. He touched on many different things, ending with saying that people of religion are going to be happy again.  He also talked about some bipartisan agreement. Perhaps the headline of this is that he says there's going to be compromise on both sides. Something that you have not heard him say in the past.  He talked about some of the nominees having bipartisanship agreement for his cabinet. The Laken Riley bill.  Then he said some things that were perhaps concerning, comparing the plane crash that we all just saw happen with the 67 lives taken in Washington, D.C., to playing golf and how it is very unusual for golf balls to hit each other, comparing that to the planes having a mid-air crash.  He also talked about Covid, saying that religion was hurt by Covid, failing to mention the 1.1 million Americans plus who were killed by Covid.  A lot of things he - he sort of touched on. He talked about himself and how he was nearly assassinated and went into great detail about how he was able to dodge the bullet, comparing himself to a deer.  So, there were some interesting comments made there at the Prayer Breakfast this morning.  And you see him there shaking hands with some of the folks that are there, congressional leaders, et cetera.  All right, coming up, President Trump's ambitions and controversial plans for the future of Gaza get a vote of approval from one prime minister. That would be Benjamin Netanyahu. We'll run the numbers on how Americans actually feel about the United States going in to, quote/unquote, "own Gaza."  (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [08:49:05] JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: All right, just a short time ago, President Trump put out a statement trying to clarify his position on a U.S. takeover of Gaza. This despite the fact that some of his aides tried to walk back part of it yesterday. He says in no uncertain terms, the Gaza Strip would be turned over to the United States by Israel at the conclusion of fighting.  So, what do Americans think about that? What do people in Gaza think about that? One man has the answer. CNN's senior data reporter Harry Enten.  So, this idea of the U.S. taking over Gaza or getting involved in Gaza, what have voters said about that in the past?  HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: Yes. Yes, they don't like it. They don't like it. So, a lead role for the U.S. rebuilding Gaza. Now, this was a poll taken last year. Obviously, we don't have new polling because it just happened a few days ago. But just 37 percent of Americans supported this idea. Look at this, the vast majority, 57 percent opposed. And what I should note is, only 24 percent of Republicans actually supported the idea of the U.S. taking a lead role in rebuilding Gaza.  [08:50:06] So, simply put, this is an unpopular proposal. I couldn't believe we actually had a poll on this idea, though, given that this Trump statement almost seemed to come out of nowhere.  BERMAN: I will say, this is actually a much more mild position along - a role for rebuilding isn't even as extreme as a long term ownership position in Gaza. ENTEN: Correct. BERMAN: So, it might be that the opposition could be even greater.  ENTEN: Could be even higher. BERMAN: What do people in Gaza think about this for Palestinians?  ENTEN: Yes, so, you know, look, again, we don't have any fresh polling on this, but the idea that they're going to trust Donald Trump, in my mind, is absolutely insane because Gazans on Trump's first term leadership, if you take an average of the polling back when Trump was in his first term, just 10 percent of Gazans approved of Trump's leadership, compared to 81 percent who disapprove.  You know, we can talk all about Americans, right? But at the end of the day, this is Gazans who would have to move out. This is Gazans who would have to move out. And they, simply put, don't trust Donald Trump. They don't like Donald Trump.  Now, Mr. Berman, there is one thing that we've noted, is this idea that Trump is going - just trying to negotiate, putting himself in a better negotiating position. Is he just bluffing? A lot of his supporters would argue that he is.  And this is interesting. Google searches for Trump combined with bluff, up 600 percent versus a year ago. That was - the highest level was on Tuesday. So, maybe there's some idea that Trump's just trying to put the U.S. in a better negotiating position. There are some Americans who believe that because Donald Trump better hope so because the bottom line is, there's very little support, at least in the prior polling, for the idea that the U.S. is going to take a lead role in rebuilding Gaza. BERMAN: Just put out this new post. Seems like he's serious.  ENTEN: I guess. I mean, maybe. Who really knows with Donald Trump. Sometimes he says a and he's really hoping for b.  BERMAN: Harry Enten, thank you very much.  ENTEN: Thank you. BERMAN: Kate.  KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: Let's talk more about this right now.  Joining us is Democratic Senator Chris Coons, senator from Delaware.  Senator, thank you for coming in.  I want to ask about what Donald Trump posted this morning, because he is digging in and maybe somewhat backing away from some parts of his plan, now saying that Gaza will be turned over to the United States by Israel at the conclusion of fighting. He says, by then, Palestinians will already be resettled in the region. And also says that no troops will be needed in this. Tuesday night, you were speechless when you first learned of how he described his plan originally.  SEN. CHRIS COONS (D-DE): Yes. BOLDUAN: And today, Senator, you are what when it comes to this Gaza proposal? COONS: This is a dangerous distraction, Kate. Donald Trump is doing now what he's done often in his time in leadership, which is to distract us from something else that he's doing. And here it's pretty obvious, he is actively shutting down U.S. foreign aid.  So, the folks all around the world, who've worked for the United States for decades, helping people who are homeless, who are hungry, who lack clean water and medicine, are all being forced to return to Washington. And the programs of our foreign aid bureau, the USAID department are being shut down.  And so, rather than confront the anger and the disappointment by many who believe that this is important for our safety and our security and for our values to be spread around the world, he's distracting with a completely unserious proposal to forcibly relocate nearly 2 million people. He's backing away today and saying U.S. troops wouldn't do it, the Israelis would somehow magically move 2 million people when there's no other country in the region that would welcome them, and the Gazans don't want to move.  But, Kate, let's just think about this for one second. If he were serious, exactly the people in the U.S. government, who understand best how to deal with the humanitarian crisis, with refugees, with a lack of public health and clean water, with a lack of shelter, those are the people who are being fired, laid off and put on administrative leave. And those are the programs being shut down.  Democrats held the floor of the Senate all night last night to protest the nomination of a guy named Russell Vought for an entity called OMB, which most folks have never heard of. But he's the guy who believes it's legal for the president of the United States to take money we've already appropriated and were already spending, like money on foreign aid, and take it back. This is what he's distracting us from. And the idea that we would actually seriously take over Gaza I don't think is a credible or realistic proposal at all.  BOLDUAN: One thing - I want to ask about USAID and that Elon Musk led effort.  But on what Trump's talking about here, and on the Gaza proposal, Witkoff, Steve Witkoff said that he - Trump doesn't want to put troops on the ground, and he doesn't want to spend any U.S. dollars at all. When you're talking - it made me think of it when you were talking about USAID being the people that would need - to be helping in that effort.  Could - is that - you're laughing because that's just not even possible if Donald Trump is serious and would want to do this?  [08:55:00] COONS: Where would the tens of billions of dollars and the expertise come from? If every Arab and Muslim country in the region forcefully opposes the idea of relocating Palestinians and would not support this? And they've publicly said so, right? Where would all this money to rebuild Gaza come from, and who would do it? It is not a serious proposal. It's a distraction so we're not paying attention to the fact that they've burrowed in these DOGE folks under Elon Musk's direction.  BOLDUAN: So, let - let me ask you about that. COONS: They've borrowed into the private information of every American, something that we should all be alarmed about and should be blocked in federal courts.  BOLDUAN: On, especially USAID, because you've been very - you've spoken out very - you've been very outspoken in your criticism of what they're trying to do with USAID and are doing. Is it the - is it the hatchet approach that you think is so wrong, or do you think no review and no reform at all is warranted at an agency like USAID? COONS: I absolutely expected and agree that we should be looking closely at every federal agency, from the Department of Defense to USAID, for where they can be more efficient, more effective. I've introduced two bipartisan pieces of legislation to make USAID more effective in the last Congress, when Biden was president, absolutely. I fully thought that this year we would begin a fairly searching review of AID and its partners to make sure that it's effective.  But this is a chainsaw approach, laying off all the people who understand best how to fix it, how to improve it, folks who've worked there for years, folks who run it. It has long enjoyed deep bipartisan support.  It was President Bush who launched a program called PEPFAR that has saved 20 million lives.  BOLDUAN: Yes. COONS: And the folks who are actually implementing AID programs, like World Vision, Catholic Relief Services, CARE, Save the Children are non-profits that are supported by millions of Americans. Americans didn't wake up and suddenly decide, we don't want to push back on China's influence. We don't want to be safe from pandemics. We don't want to help people in the world who are struggling with disasters.  But the chainsaw approach that Elon Musk and Donald Trump are taking to foreign aid will have that consequence. China is cheering. Folks who are human traffickers, who are drug cartels, who are terrorists, they will advance as we abruptly shut down and abandon these important and life-saving programs that help keep Americans safe.  BOLDUAN: One thing we do know is, someone always fills the void. Someone always fills the vacuum when it is left, that's for sure.  COONS: Absolutely. BOLDUAN: Senator, thank you for coming in. I really appreciate your time. COONS: Thank you. BOLDUAN: Sara.  SIDNER: All right, ahead, if you've been hired by the CIA in the last two years, your name has just been sent to the White House, and it's not classified. The growing controversy behind the massive national security concerns that experts say this brings. That story and more, next.  (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 