[07:00:00] JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Breaking this morning, two self inflicted trade wars averted, one fully on. China targets crucial U.S. products and companies, and we are standing by to see how the markets react. SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR:  Will FBI agents who investigated January 6th rioters be punished for doing their jobs? A noon deadline set by President Trump looms for senior officials who have been told to turn over those agents' names. Fear of a mass firing, a major concern this morning among those sworn to protect this country from a terror attack both at home and abroad. KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  And today the NTSB is set to release new information and data from the helicopter's black box in that deadly and tragic D.C. plane collision, as crews continue to remove wreckage from the Potomac River. I'm Kate Bolduan with John Berman and Sara Sidner. This is CNN News Central. BERMAN:  And breaking this morning, one trade war is on after the U.S. retreated from two others. The Wall Street Journal declared this morning, Trump blinks on tariffs against Canada and Mexico after receiving concessions the countries had largely agreed to weeks or months ago. But China is a different story. A 10 percent tariff on Chinese imports went into effect at midnight. China retaliated immediately, a 15 percent tax on U.S. coal, 10 percent on U.S. crude oil and large displacement cars and pickup trucks, also an investigation into Google for allegedly violating their anti-monopoly regulations. So, this is the back and forth over just the last few hours. Let's get right to CNN's Alayna Treene at the White House, Marc Stewart standing by in Beijing. Alayna, first to you, this is a trade war, the one that Donald Trump has not backed off from. ALAYNA TREENE, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER:  That's exactly right. And as you mentioned, John, the president's widespread 10 percent tariffs on all of Chinese goods went into effect at 12:01 this morning. We saw Beijing immediately retaliate with a barrage of their own measures. But, look, this 10 percent figure is a far cry from the 60 percent figure we know that the president repeatedly talked about and threatened to levy on China throughout his time on the campaign trail. And it really signals that if the two countries cannot come to some sort of deal, we could see these tariffs increase even further. Now, we did hear the president kind of speak to this yesterday while in the Oval Office. Take a listen to how he put it. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT:  We'll have some good meetings with China. We have meetings planned and we'll see what happens. But that was just an opening salvo. If we can't make a deal with China, then the tariffs will be very, very substantial. (END VIDEO CLIP) TREENE:  So, you heard him, John, say that this is just an opening salvo. Now, look, we do know that the president is expected to speak directly with Chinese President Xi Jinping in the coming days, unclear exactly when that will happen. But the key question, of course, is whether or not we could see some sort of swift deal come into place, just like we saw the president reach with both Canada and Mexico, tariffs, of course, which were supposed to also go into effect at 12:01 today, but they were able to push that off for a month while the two sides continue to speak. Now, one thing as well that I know I'm picking up on in my conversations is how different Republicans could respond to a deal like that. We know many Republicans, particularly those on Capitol Hill, are a bit skeptical right now of whether the president is still just as hawkish on China as he has been in the past. It seems, you know, if he is willing to make a deal with Xi Jinping and maybe if these tariffs end up seeing an off ramp, like he had with the other countries, we could be hearing a lot of criticism from some of the hawks on Capitol Hill. John? BERMAN:  Yes, that would be one interesting dynamic to watch for sure. Alayna, stand by. Let's go to Marc Stewart in Beijing. And, Marc, Alayna used the term opening salvo because that's what President Trump said, and I think we get the sense this morning that China could have done a lot more, but is keeping some of its powder dry. [07:05:07] I think we get the sense this morning that China could have done a lot more, but is keeping some of its powder dry. MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  China could have done a lot more. In fact, I was discussing with a colleague earlier today, the one item that is not on this tariff list are soy products, which are very important to China because of the big pork industry here. If that were to be on the list, that could have a big impact. But we've been going through this list, and a lot of focus is on energy sources. No question those are important, but if you look at the Chinese economy, China gets energy from so many other places beyond the United States, such as the Middle East, such as Russia. So, in many regards, this is a symbolic move. In fact, the list also includes American pickup trucks, which are not a very popular item among American consumers. Something that did catch our attention, though, is that China is targeting two U.S. companies on a corporate level, putting them on what's known as the a list known as an unreliable entities list two companies, including one PVH, which has Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger, two very well known brands under its heading. China, in the most simple of terms, is saying that these companies are not following the rules. And that if China wants to, it can punish it and take action on its investments, its imports, its exports, its worker visas. That could be very detrimental. Still waiting to hear from these companies exactly if they have been notified and how that will play out. But this phone call that we've been talking about between these two leaders is going to be crucial because it will determine where this compass goes. Now that China has retaliated, will the White House throw back more tariffs back at China or is the table going to be open for negotiation? When these two leaders last talked two weeks ago on a phone call, China talked about a fresh new start. We'll have to see if that language holds in this upcoming communication, John. BERMAN:  Yes, we will see if China can get the same results that Canada and Mexico did from the United States and likewise. All right, Marc Stewart in Beijing, our thanks to Alayna Treene as well. Kate? BOLDUAN:  Today is the deadline for FBI leaders to turn over the names of agency employees who worked on the January 6th investigation. So, what happens now? And the secretary of state, Marco Rubio, is calling it an act of extraordinary friendship. El Salvador now offering to take in people deported from the United States, but take in people of any nationality, even saying they'll house violent American criminals. Buffy the Vampire Slayer fans, rejoice, a sequel of the 90s hit series might be getting a reboot. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [07:10:00] SIDNER:  Big question this morning is the FBI on the brink of a mass firing. That is the concern this morning as a deadline set by President Trump's Justice Department expires in just a few hours now. By noon today, senior FBI officials have been told to hand over the names of all employees who worked on January 6th cases, yes, the cases where people were convicted of attacking the Capitol. Now, why they're wanted if it's legal and whether or not those senior leaders will actually comply all pretty unclear this morning. Let's bring in Senior Justice Correspondent Evan Perez. Evan, this is a lot for the senior members of the FBI to think about and to consider. They have been told that they have to hand over those names. What are you learning about what might happen today at noon? EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Sara, these names are really going to be coming in at noon. We expect that the leadership of the FBI is going to comply but, really, the pushback is very real inside the FBI. We're talking about roughly half of agents, right? Maybe 7,000, 8, 000 who worked on January 6th related investigations. This was the largest investigation in the Justice Department's history, and that's the reason why people are so concerned. And, you know, this all began with a memo that went out Friday, I have it right here, that went out from Emil Bove, who is the acting deputy attorney general, and the subject line is terminations. And he's asking for the names of everyone, former and current agents and analysts, who worked on January 6th related cases as well as a Hamas related case that the Justice Department brought last year. And the pushback you're getting is real. I'll read you just a part of an email that came from James Dennehy, the head of the New York field office, to his employees. He says, I will support each and every one of you with whatever personal decision you make, but I'm sticking around to defend you, your work, your families, and this team. We call the flagship. Time for me to dig in. And I'll tell you this, the other thing that's happening is that you have outside groups, outside lawyers, who are representing agents and some of the prosecutors who've already been purged, by the way, Sara, from the Justice Department. There are dozens of prosecutors who've already been fired for simply touching anything related to Donald Trump. [07:15:03] I'll read you a part of the letter that went from those lawyers. It says, if you proceed with terminations and/or public exposure of terminated employees' identities, we stand ready to vindicate their rights through available legal means. So, that is potentially a lawsuit going to court and asking for a judge to try to prevent these terminations. We'll see if that happens today. But, again, one of the things that we're expecting, obviously, is not only for the Justice Department to get these names, but Pam Bondi, the new attorney general, she's expected to get a vote perhaps as soon as tomorrow. So, we'll have a new attorney general in place and we'll see whether she actually goes through with these potential firings or any kind of punishment for these agents. Sara? SIDNER:  This is a real potential assault on the rule of law. These agents were ostensibly doing the job that they are charged to do, which is to try to protect America from enemies within and outside of the United States. This is the job that they were charged with doing. A lot of consternation, I know, that you have been learning about from those who were there. Evan Perez, thank you so much for all of your reporting there. John? BERMAN:  All right. This morning, new reporting that President Trump is preparing an executive order aimed at dismantling the Department of Education. And if you have not yet secured tickets to the Super Bowl, now might be the time. Ticket prices dropping drastically. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [07:20:00] BOLDUAN:  And we are looking at live pictures of the, I mean, you don't even need me to say it, look at it, Caesar's Superdome in New Orleans, where all the action is going to be happening, Super Bowl 59, five days away. And if that isn't good news enough, but, wait, there's more. If you still want to go, but have not gotten a ticket, prices have plummeted. To be clear, they're still not cheap by any stretch of the imagination. But in the world of Super Bowl ticket pricing, they're downright affordable. The cheapest ticket is now under $4,000. Last night, the Chiefs and Eagles took over New Orleans, setting the stage for the NFL's biggest showdown, which means, who else other than CNN's Coy Wire is there at the Superdome in New Orleans. Only when it comes to the Super Bowl is under $4,000 equal cheap in bargain basement pricing, but I digress. It's going to get fun there very soon, buddy. COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR:  Oh, yes. I mean, what's not to love about this? So, you see the trains, horns are honking for us right now to get us started. This matchup, this Super Bowl rematch between the Eagles and the Chiefs is going to be phenomenal. The last time these two teams played, Kate, in the Super Bowl, it was the second highest scoring Super Bowl ever. The Eagles, they were led by their star quarterback, Jalen Hurts. He set a Super Bowl record running for three touchdowns and was almost able to pull out the win. This time around he has an MVP candidate running back in Saquon Barkley. Look out. Now, on the other side of the equation, it's Patrick Mahomes, it's Travis Kelce, it's Coach Andy Reid, it's all Swifties around the world teaming up to try to pull off a record three peat in the Super Bowl. We caught up with some of the players last night at the Super Bowl's opening night to get their thoughts on the big moment. Listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SAQUON BARKLEY, PHILADELPHIA EAGLES RUNNING BACK:  You just got to take it all in. This is part of it. You got to enjoy it. So, I'm happy to be here, happy to have conversations with you guys. At the same time, you know, it's a business and you stay locked in. But today you enjoy. PATRICK MAHOMES, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS QUARTERBACK:  It kind of brings you closer together when people are rooting against you. You just kind of, you become a tighter brotherhood in that locker room. And you know that we're doing it the right way. And we can bring ourselves together, have T's (ph) kingdom with us. And go out there and try to win the game against everybody. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  I don't know if that's cargo or if that's the Chiefs' train rolling through town here, Kate. I can't believe it, the festivities all week long here, Kate, in New Orleans. There are sometimes surprises, and we were able to witness one of them just yesterday. New Orleans Saints, the hometown team superstar linebacker Demario Davis and his wife, Tamela, were able to surprise a clinical nurse supervisor at the University Hospital, Stevey Kells. She oversaw the treatment of 26 patients on the night of that Bourbon Street attack. Here's a bit from Tamela and Demario on what it was like to surprise Stevie with two tickets to the Super Bowl. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TAMELA DAVIS, CHEF, AUTHOR:  I love doing things like that. I get super excited, almost like I'm winning. I don't know how you feel. DEMARIO DAVIS, NEW ORLEANS SAINTS LINEBACKER:  It was unreal. It's a resilient city. And that response began with the first responders, those who were on the scene and those who, you know, had to react quickly and she was there. So, it means a lot. And so to be able to give back to somebody who's given so much, it was awesome. That's what it's all about. T. DAVIS:  That's what it's all about, for sure. (END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE:  Demario and Tamela for over a decade, Kate, through their devoted Dreamers Foundation and their friends at Ashley, they've been able to change lives. And Stevey was no different. She was so nervous. She couldn't move. She said, I can't wait to tell my boyfriend about this. And she's a Chiefs fan, so she's going to be there to see if her team can pull off that first ever three-peat in the Super Bowl. [07:25:01] BOLDUAN:  That is a really, really beautiful moment and also a perfect opportunity to celebrate some fun. But, I mean, seriously, how many trains did you schedule right about now? I mean -- WIRE:  Who did this? Where's my producer, Dan? I mean, listen, we're on live T.V. You know this, right? This is not a look live. BOLDUAN:  No, you know what this is. This is about Murphy's Law of News. WIRE:  Well, we're going to be here having fun with you, Kate, all week. BOLDUAN:  Murphy's Law of News. If it can't happen, it always happens right when the live show begins. But I expect a lot. Now we had trains today. Tomorrow, I need fireworks in the middle of your live shot or something. So, get working. Get working. WIRE:  I'm going to have Ben'Yays. I'm going to Hurricanes, whatever their special drink is here, Grenades or something. I saw these huge drinks on Bourbon Street. Look out, Kate. Don't tempt me. We will have lots of fun on your hits here. BOLDUAN:  The cutest part about this is he's like, what's that drink? I don't know what it is. I couldn't possibly know what that drink is. Okay. We'll see what it was. WIRE:  It was blowing. I was like, what is that? BOLDUAN:  Yes. It's called party in a cup. Yes. Okay. SIDNER:  Party on Bourbon Street. My money's on Coy Wire, if it's Coy Wire versus a train whistle. My money's on Coy. But someone did not seem to like his report because they tried to drown it out. BOLDUAN:  I don't know, maybe loved it so much, they were like, we want more Coy. SIDNER:  Don't think I didn't notice that you're wearing Chiefs colors. Anywho, moving on -- I know. BOLDUAN:  I don't pick sides. I'm a lover of all football. SIDNER:  Good times, true story. All right, breaking for you this morning, China retaliates after President Trump's 10 percent tariffs went into effect on Chinese imports overnight. China slapping back. What U.S. companies and goods are caught in the crossfire. And a grieving husband remembering his wife and daughter, both killed in that deadly midair collision in D.C., as the NTSB releases new information from the black box of the Black Hawk helicopter, (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  They deserve to be remembered. They deserve to have their story known to the world. I mean, everyone dies, right? And they live on through our memories. And I want people to have a memory of them so that they live on. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [07:30:00] 