[07:30:00] ABADI ISMAIL, WITNESSED DEADLY MIDAIR COLLISION (via Webex by Cisco): We're talking about, I don't know. You know, if the rescue -- the search and rescue mission is still underway, we're talking about a current that could probably and possibly have taken some of the bodies two to three miles -- maybe even further down the river. We're talking about all the way to three or four miles south of the Potomac. This is very possible given that this water has taken a lot of lives here in the D.C. area during the summertime when people go boating and the current is very strong. Like, we've been advised not to swim here in general. But I -- you know, I'm just trying to think about what -- how these families could just go through the emotions and believe that maybe there's a hope. We hope there is a hope. I have friends that are working around the clock right now with D.C. Park (PH). They have been telling us there's about four to five people that they were able to recover their bodies. I don't know about the details yet, but we will wait for the official statement. SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR:  What you're seeing from your vantage point is just a horrific scene.  Abadi Ismail, thank you so much for joining us and giving us your perspective -- your view there out of your windows. We really appreciate it this morning -- Kate. KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Let's head back to Reagan National Airport where any moment now we are going to be getting really the first update since first light about this midair crash and disaster. You see officials gathering there right now.  CNN's Arlette Saenz is standing by at this press conference. Can you set the scene for us, Arlette? ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah, we are, Kate, just waiting potentially moments away from hearing an update from local officials about the operation that's been underway -- the search and rescue operation overnight to see if there are any survivors from this collision between that American Airlines passenger aircraft and that Army Black Hawk helicopter. Now, as you can see, there are several law enforcement officials  already on the scene. This includes D.C. Fire and EMS as well as members from the Arlington Fire Department. We are expecting to get an update from the Washington, D.C. mayor -- Mayor Muriel Bowser, as well as the D.C. Fire and EMS chief John A Donnelly Sr.  Early this morning they talked about the very dangerous conditions that these search and rescue teams were facing as they were diving into these waters. These waters overnight were incredibly dark. It was incredibly frigid. There were estimates that the temperatures in those waters could be around 36 degrees in the coldest parts of these nights.  But now these search and rescue teams are working as day has started to break here in Washington, D.C. You can see sunlight over the Potomac River. Now there are so many questions going forward not just about the investigation but also specifically the search and rescue operations that have been underway. Fatalities have been confirmed, and law enforcement officials overnight had said that no survivors so far had been pulled out. We are still waiting to hear whether there have been any further developments on that front. Of course, there are so many questions right now that families want to get some answers to. We know that American Airlines has set up a staging area here at Reagan National Airport overnight. It's in a different part of the airport than where we are, but this is somewhere where families who were trying to pick up their loved ones could come to assemble. Now it does appear that we see D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser. She's about to step up to the podium. So hopefully, we will get some more information about where this search and rescue operation stands, where potentially the investigation stands, and hopefully some answers for the families of the survivors who have been holding our hope. JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  We have these live pictures up right here and are waiting for the mayor of Washington, D.C. Muriel Bowser to begin the news conference. Let's listen in. MAYOR MURIEL BOWSER, WASHINGTON, D.C.:  Good morning. I'm Muriel Bowser. I'm the mayor of Washington, D.C. We are here at Reagan National Airport to provide an update on the tragic events of last night.  [07:35:00] I'm joined by U.S. Transportation Sec. Sean Duffy, D.C. Fire and EMS Chief John Donnelly, American Airlines CEO Robert Isom, the MWAA -- the Washington -- Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority CEO Jack Potter, United States Sen. Mark Warner, United States Sen. Tim Kaine, U.S. Rep. Don Beyer, as well as the chief with the Metropolitan Police Department Pamela Smith. And we are joined by first responders from across the Metropolitan Washington region. I speak for all of us when I say, and certainly all Washingtonians,  how very sad we are for American Airlines, for the United States Department of Defense, and for all Americans for the loss of life that happened with the collision of these aircrafts. We know that includes families from across our region as well as in Kansas and across the country. This morning we all share in a profound sense of grief. I do want to thank the first responders who acted quickly last night -- who ran towards danger, went into a very frigid river, and have worked throughout the night.  Chief Donnelly reported in last night's -- last night's briefing that we have a strong mutual aid agreement in our region and those teams have worked together throughout the night in really tough and heartbreaking conditions. And we should all thank them for their heroic efforts. So we'll have several updates today. I'm first going to turn to the Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy, and then you will hear directly from Chief John Donnelly with the situational update. SEAN DUFFY, SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION:  Thank you, Mayor. Again, Sean Duffy here, secretary of Transportation. We wish we were gathering for different purposes today. I just want to let you know that the Department of Transportation, the FAA, along with the White House and President Trump, local, state, and federal partners all working together on this incident in unison. I couldn't be prouder of this team that's been assembled working tirelessly. Mayor, I want to thank you specifically for your work. A few details I'd like to give all of you, and some of you have reported this. But last night -- if you live in the D.C. area you would know that this was a clear night last night. The helicopter was in a standard pattern. If you live in the D.C. area, you'll see helicopters up and down the river. This flight pattern is seen oftentimes when you live in D.C. This was a standard flight pattern last night as well. The American Airlines flight coming into land was in a standard flight pattern as it was coming into DCA. So this was not unusual with a military aircraft flying the river and aircraft landing at DCA. And again, if you live in the area, you will see that frequently with those two aircraft working together. As you -- many of you have reported, we have located the two aircrafts. The fuselage of the American Airline plane was inverted. It's been located in three different sections. It's in about waist- deep water. So that recovery is going to go on today as that recovery takes place of the -- of the fuselage of the aircraft. NTSB is going to start to analyze that aircraft and partner with the FAA with all of the information we have to get the best results possible for the American people. I would just say that safety is our expectation. Everyone who flies in American skies expects that we fly safely. That when you depart an airport you get to your destination. That didn't happen last night. And I know that President Trump, his administration, the FAA, the DOT, we will not rest until we have answers for the families and for the flying public. You should be assured that when you fly, you're safe. Thank you. CHIEF JOHN DONNELLY, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FIRE AND EMS DEPARTMENT: Thank you, Secretary. Thank you, Mayor. I'm joined today by -- with Fire Chief Bonnett from the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, and I'm John Donnelly, chief of the District of Columbia Fire and EMS Department. Last night at 8:48, the control tower sounded an alert which alerts responders to respond to a report of an aircraft crash on or near the airport. That sets off an immediate response from the Airports Authority Fire Department, from the District of Columbia, and Metropolitan Harbor Patrol fire boats, and other fire boats on the river in order to support that type of operation. [07:40:15] Very quickly this call escalated and it became apparent -- you know, the responders realized that they had a plane crash and immediately escalated to a response that ultimately included about 300 people last night. These responders found extremely frigid conditions. They found heavy wind. They found ice on the water. And they operated all night in those conditions.  I'd like to take a moment to acknowledge the agencies that responded in addition to D.C. Fire and EMS and the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority.  The Montgomery County Fire Department, the Prince George's County Fire Department, the Charles County Fire Department, the Baltimore County Police Department, the Anne Arundel County Fire Department, the Alexandria Fire Department, the Arlington County Fire Department, the Fairfax Fire Department, the Prince William Fire Department, the Baltimore City Police Department, the Maryland State Police, the Maryland Natural Resources Police.  The Department of Defense, the Joint Base Bolling Fire Department and the staff there. The U.S. Army, the U.S. Coast Guard, the United States Park Police, the Metropolitan Police Department, the FBI, and the NTSB.  Despite all those efforts we are now at a point where we are switching from a rescue operation to a recovery operation. At this point we don't believe there are any survivors from this accident. And we have recovered 27 people from the plane and one from the helicopter.  The district office of the medical examiner has the lead on reuniting these bodies and these people with their loved ones, and we will continue to work to find all the bodies and collect them and reunite them with their loved ones. We should also acknowledge that the Virginia medical examiner and the  Army medical examiner are involved in this operation and a very important part of getting the people identified.  So, who's next? BOWSER:  Our hearts are certainly with all of the crew and American Airlines, and we'll hear from CEO Isom. ROBERT ISOM, CEO AMERICAN AIRLINES:  Thank you, Mayor. Good morning. I'm Robert Isom, the CEO of American Airlines. I want to express my sincere condolences for the accident that happened at DCA last night. We're absolutely heartbroken for the family and loved ones of the passengers and crew members, and also for those that were on the military aircraft.  Our focus right now is doing everything that we can to support all of those involved and also the PSA Airlines team. This is devastating. It's -- we are all hurting incredibly. We urge any family and friends looking for information about their loved ones to call our designated help line and that's 1-800-679-8215 -- 1-800-679-8215.  And here's what I can share at this early stage. American Eagle flight 5342, operated by PSA Airlines traveling from Wichita, Kansas to Reagan National Airport was involved in an accident just before 9:00 p.m. local time on final approach into Reagan National. It collided with a military aircraft on an otherwise normal approach. And at this time we don't know why the military aircraft came into the path of the PSA aircraft.  Flight 5342, a CRJ700, was under the command of four crew members. They carried 60 passengers, as you know, for a total of 64 people on board.  In addition to local resources already here in D.C., American Airlines has activated our care team, and that's a group of specialists that are trained to support these types of responses. These team members are on site or arriving soon.  And additionally, we have members of our Go Team that are on the ground here on D.C. and they are being deployed with resources to do everything that we can to take care of the needs of the families and the loved ones of the passengers and crew members, and that is our sole focus.  And we're so grateful for the first responders. They've been working the night -- courageous efforts.  [07:45:00] And we're actively working with local, state, and federal authorities on emergency response efforts and closely coordinating with PSA Airlines as they cooperate fully with the NTSB on the investigation. I know that there are many questions and at this early stage I just won't be able to answer many, but we'll provide additional information as it comes. Thank you.  BOWSER:  I want to introduce the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority CEO, Jack Potter. The Authority manages Washington -- Reagan Washington National and Dulles International. JACK POTTER, CEO, METROPOLITAN WASHINGTON AIRPORTS AUTHORITY:  Good morning and thank you, Mayor.  First, let me begin by expressing our condolences for all the victims of this flight and for their families. There's a lot of grieving going on and so we're very sympathetic to that.  I want to echo what was said about the first responders. When there's a problem in this area everybody drops everything, and they rush to where the problem is. So I want to thank the chief, the entire from Washington, D.C. But just as important, the list of folks that the chief described. The federal authorities have been here en masse and so a lot of effort was brought to bear.  Unfortunately we were unable to rescue anyone, but we are in the recovery mode right now.  And I just want to -- you know, last night I expressed the fact that we hoped to open at 11:00 today and that is still the case. We're going to open the airport at 11:00. And again, condolences to the families and thanks to the many, many who are still out there working very, very hard to complete this recovery. Thank you, Mayor. BOWSER:  I do want to acknowledge that the Virginia Transportation secretary is here, in addition to the Alexandria mayor.  And I would like to ask members of the Virginia Congressional delegation to the podium next. U.S. Sen. Mark Warner, followed by Tim Kaine and Rep. Don Beyer. SEN. MARK WARNER (D-VA):  Thank you, Mayor. I want to join with everyone else and express my condolences for the victims. For folks who don't live in the DMV, we are made up of a lot of jurisdictions. Reagan Airport is in Virginia. Across the river we have Maryland. Obviously, the District. But as has been indicated by the chief, when tragedy happens all those distinctions between the various jurisdictions and our federal partners all disappear. And I want to again thank all the first responders. On a personal note I will just add that literally I now know I was coming back from the District from a dinner to my home in Old Town Alexandria. And while I did not see the collision I wondered -- I'd never seen this many red lights streaming towards the airport and across the river in Maryland about this time of night. My phone started blowing up and I realized that this accident had taken place. There will be a time to figure out -- I know NTSB will have a briefing later in the day.  But to the victims, our condolences. To the first responders, our thanks.  SEN. TIM KAINE (D-VA):  Sorrow, thanks, and questions -- so sorrow, as all have expressed to the crew, to the passengers, to the soldiers. To their families, to their friends, to their loved ones. To people who are still trying to get information and are unsure whether their loved ones have been lost. We offer our profound condolences to them and our sorrow for this tragedy.  Thanks -- I'll echo Mayor, what you began with. When you see a challenge like this and you see people from so many different agencies -- local, state, federal with different uniforms, different badges, but working in such a coordinated way even in the midst of a tragedy, it does give you a sense of appreciation and pride in people's willingness to come to the danger and work together. And I started to see that as a local official 30 years ago in Richmond and definitely have seen it here. And then finally, questions. There are going to be a lot of questions -- obviously, a lot of questions. And that's what the NTSB's job is, is to be an independent investigator of incidents like this. And they are here. We were in dialogue with them earlier today. They've been here since they got the alert. [07:50:00] And they will be doing the work and playing lead in answering the many questions that we have -- and that's as it should be. It's not a time to speculate; it's a time to investigate and get the answers to the questions we need, and I have confidence that will be done. Thank you. REP. DON BEYER (D-VA):  Following up on the senator, I think grief, thanks, and service. With millions and millions of Americans traveling every year we are all grieving knowing that it could have been our loved ones, it could have been us. And our hearts go out to all those who have lost folks.  In a most partisan place also it's -- I'm really thankful that Democrats and Republicans and people from all over have come together to try to make sure that people are served.  As a local representative I want the families to know that our office is available to serve you in any way we possibly can through this time of grief and transition and loss.  And that also just note that we're deeply grateful for the people who risked their lives last night on a moment's notice and spent the whole night on the river in the ice and the wind doing -- serving us. And then finally, as Sen. Kaine and Sen. Warner noted, after the NTSB  investigation we've got to make sure that at the federal level and with the support of Virginia, Maryland, and D.C. we're doing everything we can to make sure this does not happen again. BOWSER:  So with that, it's been said already that the National Transportation Safety Board becomes the lead agency in the investigation. Our jurisdiction in D.C. where the crash occurred over the river is -- concludes as we -- in the leadership role of the unified command as we shift to a recovery effort. We expect the National Transportation Safety Board to provide briefings to the press later in the day. So at this point we can take a few questions. Yes? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Can you say without a shadow of a doubt that people are safe flying? BOWSER:  What we're talking -- what we can talk about today is what happened here with the collision of these vehicles. We've said what we know and that the National Transportation Safety Board continues to investigate. I don't know that any of us have been briefed on anything that would suggest any other aircraft are implicated. Yes? UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You're still missing 30-plus people in the water. What are some of the challenges in recovering them right now? BOWSER:  Chief. DONNELLY:  So the rescue operation -- or the recovery operation goes on. It's a lot of touch and feel in the different parts of the plane or in the helicopter. And the crash area is a little spread out, so we've got some work to do. And I think it's a pretty normal type of situation. I don't think it's extraordinary. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  How spread out is the debris field? DONNELLY:  So the wind started blowing last night so we've had debris travel from the airport down as far as the Wilson Bridge. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Mile wise how far is that? DONNELLY:  I couldn't tell you. Less than a mile.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is a question for CEO Potter. You're going to open the airport at 11:00 this morning. How are you going to do that, and what impact is that going to have on operations, on passengers, on people's anxiety? How are you going to do this? POTTER:  Well, we're going to open the airport at 11:00. It's safe. We've worked with all the federal agencies -- FAA -- and it's been determined that we can open that airport safely. The recovery effort that's on our property is on the waterfront. Our primary runway 119 will be open. It's away from any activity. We're going to have a secure area around that. So all are comfortable that we can get back to operations. Now, each airline will announce or communicate to their passengers what their operations are going to be. Obviously, their networks were disrupted overnight and so we might have a slow recovery. But the bottom line is we will begin to have aircraft move in and out of this airport at 11:00. BOWSER:  OK. So, one, two, three. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (INAUDIBLE). BOWSER:  I don't think we can say anything about what's in the NTSB's purview. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You mentioned the airport opens three hours from now. There's a lot of helicopter traffic from the military and U.S. Park Police, and all that. Will helicopters be flying right through here as well beyond the recovery efforts? BOWSER:  I don't know the answer to that. Jack, do you have anything to add? We don't have anything to add about that. Yes? [07:55:00] UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is for Sec. Duffy. (INAUDIBLE) to Americans that the U.S. still has the safest airspace in the world? DUFFY:  So the question is can I guarantee to the American flying public that the United States has the most safe and secure airspace in the world, and the answer to that is absolutely yes, we do. We have early indicators of what happened here, and I will tell you with complete confidence we have the safest airspace in the world. BOWSER:  This next. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  When it comes to (INAUDIBLE) what does that look like (INAUDIBLE) the flight manifest. Is there any details you can give on that flight? BOWSER:  Mr. Isom, can you add anything? ISOM:  All I can say is that we have published the 1-800 number. We have family assistance centers set up here in DCA. We do in Wichita as well. I'm not at liberty to give the number of families that have been -- that have used those services. But we are making that use.  We have over 100 team members that are either here or on their way that are specially trained to work with family members. Handle travel arrangements, hotel arrangements, incidentals to make sure that we're taking care of people in any way that they can. As our teams are hurting and suffering and as our passengers and their families need assistance, we're doing everything we can. I don't have any other -- more information on that right now. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Chief Donnelly, can I ask you to describe the next phase of the investigation? How confident are you that you'll be able to recover all 67 of these bodies? And can you speak to some of the debris that's also being pulled out of the river (INAUDIBLE) and some other things that have been pulled out from the river?  And I would like to add if anyone here -- perhaps the transportation secretary of Mr. Isom if you know anything about these victims -- age ranges, nationalities? Thank you for that. DONNELLY:  So the next phase of this operation is going to be led by the NTSB. All of us are working together though to search the area and to find the victims. I'm confident that we will do that and that will take us a little bit of time though and may involve some more equipment.  As far as the things being collected, I don't have personal knowledge. I know that we have been collecting debris that you would expect to see from a plane.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  OK. Anything about the victims? DUFFY:  So just -- so the question is about the victims. The NTSB is going to lead that portion of the contact with the victims. I believe American is going to be involved with that as well. And so will the FAA and the Department of Transportation. BOWSER:  Secretary Duffy, we're going to take some questions over here. One, two, three, four. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  For Secretary Duffy, the flight path that the helicopter was on -- is that a common flight path? And is it normal for helicopters to get clearance to cut across busy paths? DUFFY:  So I don't know if you all could hear the question. It's a question about the flight path of the helicopter. I don't want to go into too much detail about the information we have from the FAA. But obviously it is -- it is not standard to have aircraft collide. I want to be clear on that.  But prior to the collision the flight paths that were being flown from the military and from American -- that was not unusual for what happens in the D.C. airspace. And as this investigation moves forward, we will be able to provide more information to you about the details of that statement.  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I wanted to follow up on that question regarding the plane's path. You said it's standard. So can you speak to the conversations that air traffic control. Were there blind spots here? DUFFY:  So the question is were there blind spots with air traffic control. I don't want to make statements about that. I don't lead into that answer.  But again, I think whether it was air traffic control, whether it was the military aircraft -- helicopters or the American flight, everything was standard in the leadup to the crash. Now obviously there was -- something happened here. You'll get more information and more details as this investigation moves forward. We'll learn what happened. But again, those who live in the D.C. area -- we see military helicopters fly up and down the river. It's a standard path that they fly. They're used to aircraft landing at DCA and there's a procedure in place because this happens every day.  Something went wrong here. I look forward to the time and point when we can give you that information, but I don't want to comment on that right now.  