[09:00:00]  BRIAN STELTER, CNN CHIEF MEDIA ANALYST: Fans can hold him accountable sometimes. JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: And, Brian, you've written eloquently on the difference between the discussion over free speech and what you call favored speech. Explain what you mean by that. STELTER: Right. I don't think we're really oftentimes having arguments over free speech. What we're having are arguments over favored speech versus disfavored speech. And right now the Trump administration clearly favors certain kinds of speech. Trump, who quickly signed an executive order saying he was reversing censorship, at the same time that he signed other executive orders policing word choice, policing certain word use. So, there's a kind of hypocrisy there. And it's oftentimes about favored speech, whatever the administration is approving of at that current time, versus disfavored speech. Right now "The Associated Press" is disfavored. The AP has been banned from the Oval Office and Air Force One. The AP is contemplating legal action to try to reverse that. That's an example of not free speech, but disfavored speech right now.  BERMAN: All right, Brian Stelter, great to see you. Everyone go immediately open the "Reliable Sources" newsletter, available in an email box near you.  A new hour of CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts now.  KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: New video just in of the moment the Delta flight crashed on landing in Toronto and then flips upside down. Every person on board survives. The new video also - new detail also on the investigation now underway. And face to face. The secretary of state speaking out just as he wraps up the first major talks with Russia to end its war in Ukraine. The four principals Marco Rubio says that they've agreed upon.  And the fate of New York City Mayor Eric Adams could be decided today. What New York's governor is now considering is she calls a meeting to figure out a, quote/unquote, path forward.  I'm Kate Bolduan, with John Berman. Sara is out today. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL.  BERMAN: All right, into our newsroom just a few minutes ago, two new video showing the crash in Toronto that left that Delta flight upside down. Let's take a look at the newest one here.  You can see this Delta flight coming in on what appears to be a routine landing at Toronto Pearson International Airport. But then as it hits the ground, the fire, the smoke and, in the distance there, that's the plane flipping over. An extraordinary vantage point.  A different view we also have this morning. That's from the front. You can see the plane coming down. And it looks to be landing hard right there. You can see it coming down, perhaps a little more steeply, a little harder than it should be. Then the smoke, again, and then the flames. The wind gusts at the time, 40 miles per hour. There was snow blowing in the air. The visibility was limited.  Let's get right to CNN's Jason Carroll, live in Toronto this morning, for the latest information you're picking up on the ground there, Jason.  JASON CARROLL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, you know, first and foremost, the more we look at that video that you just saw there, John, the more it becomes clear just how fortunate all 80 people were on board that flight, that everyone made it out alive. Again, 18 injuries, but everyone made it off that flight alive.  And still so many questions about exactly what went wrong here. I mean the flight was cleared on approach as we know. Emergency officials say the runway was dry and that there were, quote, no crosswind conditions. Many of the passengers that have spoken to CNN, basically they're all saying the same thing, that everything seemed normal as the flight was approaching and - but once it landed, it landed hard. One passenger saying it was almost immediately after landing the plane was on its side.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOHN NELSON, SURVIVED DELTA PLANE CRASH IN TORONTO: When we hit, it was just a super hard, like a - hit the ground and the plane went sideways. And I believe we skidded like on our side and then flipped over on our back. It was mass chaos. I was upside down. The lady next to me was upside down. We kind of let ourselves go and fell to hit the ceiling, which is a surreal feeling. And then everybody was just like, get out, get out, get out.  (END VIDEO CLIP) CARROLL: And the cabin crew did their part getting everyone off that flight in due time. Again, that passenger also said that he saw a fireball outside. So, you can imagine what it was like for these people on board, you know, landing, having that hard landing, on their side, upside down, all in short order.  Investigators do have some good factors playing in their favor. First and foremost, they have easy access to the flight data recorder, as well as the cockpit voice recorder.  [09:05:06] They're going to be able to interview the cabin crew, interview the pilot and copilot, trying to get more input in terms of what happened in those final moments before the plane landed.  But even with all of that, John, you well know - you very well know that it's going to probably be some time before we know exactly what happened here.  John.  BERMAN: It will take some time, but we should get some firsthand accounts very quickly.  Jason Carroll, thank you so much for your reporting from Toronto. Kate.  BOLDUAN: Let's go now, John, to the breaking news on the war in Ukraine. The first real talks to end Russia's invasion, they just wrapped. And moments ago, we heard directly from the three top U.S. officials who met face to face with Russian leaders in Saudi Arabia this morning. Secretary of State Marco Rubio calling today a first step in a long and difficult journey.  Listen.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) MARCO RUBIO, SECRETARY OF STATE: The work remains. Today is the first step of a long and difficult journey, but an important one. And President Trump is committed to bringing an end to this conflict.  (END VIDEO CLIP) BOLDUAN: CNN's Alayna Treene is at the White House, Alex Marquardt in Riyadh.  Alex, let me start with you. This meeting - this meeting wraps. What's the latest? And what now?  ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, Kate, the two sides emerged from this meeting at a palace here in Riyadh after about 4.5 hours. There was a positive take from the American side. Steve Witkoff, Middle East envoy, calling it very solid and positive. A bit more measured from the Russians. One of the negotiators calling it not bad. The foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, saying that it was useful.  I think the bottom line here, Kate, is that neither side is walking away with any kind of agreement on any solutions or conclusions for what should be done in Ukraine. It's clear that this was about continuing to talk and getting the discussions going. The American side talked about the need to get to a permanent peace.  Our colleague, Jennifer Hansler, who is traveling with Secretary of State Marco Rubio, asked the American delegation what that would look like. And this is what the national security advisor, Mike Waltz, said.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) MIKE WALTZ, NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: This needs to be a permanent end to the war and not a temporary end, as we've seen in the past. We know just the practical reality is that there is going to be some discussion of territory, and there's going to be a discussion of security guarantees.  (END VIDEO CLIP) MARQUARDT: So, Kate, the American delegation really making it clear that this was a meeting to follow up on the phone call last week between President Trump and Putin. This is talks about more talks.  But Rubio did highlight four principles that the two sides agreed on. The first of which is to improve the functionality of both the embassies in Washington and Moscow. Both the Russian and American embassies have been gutted in the past three years with diplomats and intelligence officials being kicked out. The second was to name a high-level negotiating team for Ukraine. And then they talked about laying the groundwork for cooperation on geopolitical opportunities. And very interestingly, Rubio talks about historic economic and investment potential opportunities. So, it's clear that they are looking past the war in Ukraine. And then the final thing that they agreed on was just that the five men would continue to talk.  Kate, I think, in situations like this, we often have to read between the lines to see the differences between the American and the Russians, Kate. When you look at what the Americans said, they put Ukraine right at the top of their statement following this meeting. The Russians, they put it right at the bottom. It is their last talking point.  And then there were questions about whether Presidents Trump and Putin would meet anytime soon. That's something that we have heard from the Trump administration. We are hearing that it is not going to take place next week. Unlikely to do so according to the Russians. There has been no date set for that.  Kate.  BOLDUAN: Alex, great to have you there. Thank you so much for your reporting.  Let's also now go to the White House. Alayna Treene standing by for us.  And, Alayna, have you heard - have you - is there any word from the White House, the president reacting to what's playing out in Saudi Arabia yet this morning? ALAYNA TREENE, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: We have not yet heard from  the White House specifically or the president himself. But look, I think, from what we are hearing from the delegation there in Riyadh, specifically what we heard from Steve Witkoff, who is Donald Trump's Middle East envoy, but as, of course, as we're seeing, really taking on this Ukraine-Russia portfolio as well, he said that the meeting went better than he could have expected. He said that it was very solid. And I know that going into today, when I did talk to White House officials, and Trump administration officials, they said really that they wanted it to be, as Rubio put it, a first step in a - what they knew would be a longer process, but also to make sure that they weren't leaving anything off the table, that everything would be on the table as they walked in to these discussions and broader talks.  [09:10:07] One thing that really was striking to me in listening to both - or all of, you know, Rubio, Witkoff and Waltz, was as - as Alex put it, which is, you know, this is going to be a broader  conversation. But the goal is not only to find a lasting end to this war, but also to establish better relations moving forward. Waltz put it like this. He said, "unlike what could be a better relationship with Moscow moving forward."  But another thing as well that was very clear. And Alex brought this up as well, is that, you know, we heard Rubio specifically talk about the importance of the European Union, talk about the importance of Ukraine and having a seat at the table moving forward.  Of course, we know behind the scenes one of the big concerns has been European allies worrying that they are going to be left behind and isolated in these talks. So, notable that they made that such a priority to discuss today.  And then, of course, I think just pointing out what Rubio said as well, that all sides are going to need to make concessions. So, look, they seem very open-minded. But again, a first step in what will likely be a very long conversation moving forward, Kate.  BOLDUAN: And, Alayna, is there a question of who's going to be leading these negotiations? You have Rubio, Waltz and Steve Witkoff in the room. Rubio talked - I'm not sure if it was Rubio or Waltz talking about needing to establish the team that's going to be leading these negotiations. Is it clear or is that - is that even in question?  TREENE: You know, it's interesting because when he said that I was curious what that team would look like. I think we have to, obviously, do more reporting to see what - who they are thinking for that role.  KATE: Yes. TREENE: One thing that has been clear is that the president very much trusts Steve Witkoff to do a lot of this negotiating, particularly when it comes to Russia. I'd remind you that last week it was Wikoff he sent to Russia, and he -- we reported that Wikoff met directly with Putin while in Moscow and as part of that discussion and negotiation for the release of the American prisoner Marc Fogel. So, I do believe Wikoff is going to continue to have a key role in this. Of course, Rubio and Waltz as well.  A question now is, you know, what will Keith Kellogg, who is the special envoy for Russia and Ukraine, what will his role be. From my conversations with White House officials, it's been clear that he's really dealing with Ukraine and the Europeans on a lot of this. Unclear, though, if that's going to change behind the scenes following this meeting today, Kate. BOLDUAN: Yes. Great reporting, as always, Alayna. Thank you so much.  Still ahead for us, what to do about Eric Adams. The largest city in America is in a full on political crisis right now as the New York governor calls a meeting today to decide whether she will remove New York City's mayor from office. And the leader of a cult-like group known as the Zizians now arrested after the group was connected to a string of murders across the country.  And an epic North American rematch, USA versus Canada, this time for the championship. And how many fight - after how many fights broke out in just mere seconds the last time they met, what could go wrong?  We'll be back. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [09:17:25] BERMAN: So, this morning, "Politico" is reporting that Steve Bannon is exploring options to try to deliver President Trump a third term in office. Bannon says, quote, "I don't have right now a tremendous amount of support on this legally." There's that whole Constitution thing. "But remember, I faced longer odds on many other topics in my life."  With us now, CNN political commentator Maria Cardona and Republican strategist Joe Pinion. Joe, my question to you is, really? JOSEPH PINION, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Look, I think people are free to explore whatever they're going to explore. Certainly, Steve Bannon is an intelligent man. But the Constitution seems to be pretty clear on this. The language is pretty concise, and for a reason.  And so, look, I think ultimately there are other things at the top of the Republican agenda, certainly the president's agenda, looking at what's happening right now, trying to bring this war of expansion in Europe to an end, trying to sit down and make sure that that can be ushered to a position where the people in Ukraine can be saved, where the Russian soldiers are not losing their lives. So, all of that, I think, certainly higher on the list of things to discuss than perhaps what's going on right there.  BERMAN: You know, whether it's clear or not, as we say in "A Few Good Men," the Constitution is crystal clear. Are we clear - crystal clear? However, Maria, where am I looking here? All right, however, the issue here, Maria, is that, you know, Donald Trump kind of brings this up occasionally, too. There's some weird, you know, he doesn't sort of dance away from it either. MARIA CARDONA, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Of course not, John, because we know that Donald Trump is greedy, hungry for power, and that that is essentially his goal every day that he wakes up is to have as much executive power that is unchecked, unlimited, and, frankly, as we have seen with a lot of his moves, unconstitutional.  But sadly, we know that for this group, for Donald Trump on down in his administration, they don't think of the Constitution much more highly than they think of toilet paper. And I think that is the problem moving forward. And we do need to have vigilance on this, because as we have seen, everything that Donald Trump talks about is something that he tries to do.  PINION: I think that might be a bit overstated. I think certainly most of the things that are at the top of the president's agenda fall well within the bounds of the Constitution. The issue is that I think that people on the other side of the aisle perhaps look at it with a jaundiced eye because of the man that ultimately might be signing the executive order.  [09:20:00] So, yes, I think, at the end of the day, there are some things that people across the spectrum believe to be the case, including the fact that a president can only serve two terms. As Steve Bannon himself said, he does not have a lot of support on this right now. So, I think ultimately, again, many of these things become red herrings to distract from the fact that in less than a month a whole lot of good has happened on behalf of the American people.  BERMAN: We'll see - we'll see what the courts ultimately say about the constitutionality of some of these actions. It could very well be that they do agree with you on some points and not on others, birthright citizenship. We'll just have to see.  Before we move on from this subject completely here, I want to bring up the fact that Claudia Tenney, a member of Congress from New York, a Republican, is proposing making Donald Trump's birthday a national federal holiday, Joe. So, I'm just going to put this to you first. Again, I know there are other important things going on, but how much time should a U.S. member of Congress be spending in her office proposing making Donald Trump's birthday a national holiday?  PINION: Well, look, first of all, Congresswoman Tenney does a tremendous job down in D.C. Not only has she proposed making President Trump's birthday a national holiday, she has also sent an actual criminal referral over to the Department of Justice to insure that we are going to have the 51 former members of U.S. intelligence held accountable.  BERMAN: Fine, let's talk about the holiday. Let's talk about the holiday. Should she be spending time - should she - PINION: So, look, respectfully, I don't think she's spending a great deal of time with it, but I think the press has spent a great deal of time talking about it because of the fact that everything that touches President Trump results in some type of hyperbolic response.  BERMAN: This is the first time I've ever talked about it out loud, to be clear.  PINION: Well, not you. BERMAN: Maria, what's your point on that?  CARDONA: Yes, I - you know, I think it's a waste of time, frankly, John, but I do think that what it does, it gives Democrats the opportunity. And this is something that we need to be talking about every single day from here on out, is that the things that this president is doing and this administration are focused on do absolutely nothing to bring down the price of groceries, gas and rent, which is what Donald Trump ran on and what a lot of the voters, the non-MAGA voters that voted for him, counted on him to work on. And everything that he has done from day one is focused on inflicting chaos, division, fear and pain across the board to so many communities in this country. And that is a great message for Democrats going into the 2026 congressional elections because Republicans are enthralled with this president and they're doing absolutely nothing to do the work of the American people, which is bringing down the cost of groceries, gas and rent and dealing with inflation.  PINION: I would simply say that one man's chaos is another man's reprieve. When you look at what's at the top of the agenda, making sure that we can secure the border, restore American sovereignty, having the largest deportation in the modern history of this nation. These are things that even the polling here at CNN shows that there is bipartisan transpartisan (ph) agreement on.  So, yes, Democrats have the right to frame this however they choose. But I think if you look at the results in the latest election, and the polls coming out every single week, they can double down on this nonsense if they want. But President Trump and the Republican Party is moving forward on items that was - we have - CARDONA: You think the economy is nonsense, Joseph? BERMAN: We have to - I - PINION: No, I don't think the economy is nonsense.  CARDONA: That's what you just said. BERMAN: I have to - PINION: I think suggesting that in less than 30 days that you're going to actually be able to reduce the cost of eggs in the midst of conditions that have very little to do - CARDONA: The president said that. Donald Trump said he could - he would bring down the cost of eggs, day one. BERMAN: All right, I have - I have to jump in - I have to jump in, Maria. Maria - PINION: Well, as Mario Cuomo (ph) told them once, we campaign in poetry. We govern in pros (ph). The reality is here, Maria, you know that as well as I do. BERMAN: Maria, Joe, I have to step in. I have to step in. We - we have - we have no - we have no third term. We have no third term. The Constitution - the Constitution is clear. Joe, Maria, this segment is over.  All right, this morning, the fate of New York City Mayor Eric Adams hangs in the balance. Will the New York governor force him out of office. And 25 million Americans reportedly have a fear of flying. New details on why this phobia is so prevalent. I might have a few ideas on that. And what you can do about it.  (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [09:28:45] BOLDUAN: The path forward. That is what the Democratic governor of New York is saying it is time to discuss today when it comes to the Democratic mayor of New York City. That's because Governor Kathy Hochul is now considering whether she will take the extraordinary step to remove Mayor Eric Adams from office. The governor announced the meeting after four of the city's top officials quit in protest, saying they could not - they could no longer serve under Adams.  This is all connected to the federal corruption charges he faces. The trial he was about to be - that was about to begin, and a top Justice Department official directing prosecutors in New York to drop that case against Eric Adams.  CNN's Gloria Pazmino has more on this.  Gloria, what are you hearing about - what more are you learning about this meeting happening today between the governor and others?  GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Kate, it's not only an extraordinary state for the governor to take. It actually hasn't happened in the city's modern history, at least in the last 100 years. And she's made it clear that she does not take this lightly at all. And for that reason, she is meeting with top Democrats here in New York, including Congressman Hakeem Jeffries, Congressman Greg Meeks, the Reverend Al Sharpton, and several other leaders who will be in attendance at her Manhattan office today to have this discussion about what to do next. [09:30:00] Now, we should mention that the governor does have the power to remove the mayor, but its not a simple process. There is a due process that goes along with her  